The Project Gutenberg eBook of Sex at choice
    
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Sex at choice

Author: Cicely Grace Erskine

Contributor: James Monteith Erskine


        
Release date: April 20, 2026 [eBook #78509]

Language: English

Original publication: New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons, 1925

Other information and formats: www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/78509

Credits: Tim Lindell and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SEX AT CHOICE ***




Sex at Choice




[Illustration: _Cicely G. Erskine_]




                               Sex at Choice

                                    By
                           Mrs. Monteith Erskine

                          With an Introduction by
                          James Monteith Erskine
             M.P. for the St. George’s Division of Westminster

                            G. P. Putnam’s Sons
                             New York & London
                          The Knickerbocker Press
                                   1925

                              Copyright, 1925
                                    by
                              Cicely Erskine

                   Made in the United States of America




PREFACE


This book, written by a woman for women, is the result of twenty-five
years’ continuous study of the causes of Sex-determination and of the
most feasible method of controlling it. It represents also the work of
a life-time devoted to investigation into every symptom or indication,
however minute or apparently insignificant, manifested in the pregnancy
of male offspring as distinct from that of female.

This research, mainly practical and clinical, was undertaken as a result
of the close attention which, for some years, I had devoted to all
matters connected with the health of young girls.

At an early age I came to realise the fundamental truth of the _alternate
action of “sides.”_ I use this word advisedly, because in those days I
knew no other. It goes without saying that this fact was brought to my
notice solely by the physical disabilities from which many girls suffer,
and by the nature of the treatment which brought them relief. But, over
and above this, the recognition of this truth proved, in my case, to be
the key to the ultimate conclusions upon which my whole theory is based.

The study of anatomy and physiology attracted me so deeply, whilst I was
yet a schoolgirl at Geneva, that it led me to further pursuit along the
lines of medical enquiry. It was about this time that, by the merest
chance, certain works expounding theories on sex-causation of various
biologists in France and Germany came under my notice, and these I read
and studied with the keenest interest.

Here it may be well to answer the constantly repeated question, “What
on earth possessed you, at such an early age, to take up a subject of a
nature so peculiar or, at any rate, controversial?” It must be remembered
that, in the evolution of a certain train of thought, the mind is very
apt to be affected by an exceptional combination of circumstances. In my
own case a keen sense of the wrong which I had suffered from the start,
by being born a girl where a boy was desired, had led me to vague doubts
and questionings in early childhood. All this, undoubtedly, helped to
sow within me the seeds of a bitter dissatisfaction with prevailing
conditions. I despised the slipshod methods of biological ignorance, and
justified the saying, the truth of which has so often been proved before,
that “All striving towards betterment is the fruit of discontent.”

The helplessness of women in respect of any power to determine the sex
of their offspring I regarded as a gross injustice and as a palpable
reflection on the progress of science; not for one moment did I regard it
as really due to the haphazard working of Dame Nature in her least kindly
moods.

Then it was that the idea filtered slowly through my brain that it might
well be a woman who alone could solve the problem. Who but a woman could
have the insight, born of personal experience, the patience, produced
by the physical disability of her sex, the opportunity, offered by the
sympathy of her fellows, or the will, created by a burning desire to help
womankind, to undertake the task of unravelling the mystery?

And so I set to work to fathom the sex-theories hitherto advanced. Most
of them I speedily discarded as entirely futile and incompatible with
the rôle of woman as _the sole determining factor of the sexes_. For I
realised that even as _ten lunar months_ are needed for the formation
and perfection of the child before it is born, so also the mathematical
relation of twenty-eight days or _one lunar month_ must be applied to the
periods of fertilisation in the human species. Hence, in the scientific
use of these twenty-eight days must lie the predominant part of the
secret of pre-determination. It was at this point that the old question
“_Before or After?_” became a matter of very special interest and a vital
object of study.

Among competing theories there were, however, several which appeared
to present material for speculation of some practical value and seemed
worth testing in the light of my own observations. The results of such
tests were methodically compiled in statistical form, having regard to
the marked inclination of certain parents to procreate offspring of one
or the other sex only. Examples were selected and added to, hundred
by hundred, culled from many countries, and they represented in a
marked degree distinct conditions appearing in the pregnancies of women
according to the sex of the children they happened to bear.

The alternatives in connection with the time-honoured theory of “Lateral
Decubitus,” which means the use of position to right or left as an
assistance to sex-determination, were duly explored. And it must be borne
in mind, as regards the belief of the right side being male and the left
female, that this seems to have been widely accepted before any definite
conclusions as to sex-theory were ever mooted. The words of the first
Chapter of Genesis “Male and Female created He them,” appeared to have
been applied to the right or left sides of woman ever since the days
of Hippocrates. The evidence of tradition, at any rate, could be cited
overwhelmingly in support of it.

Again the modern suggestion that “each organ works in shifts,” was
another principle of equal significance, which impressed itself upon
me in the early stages of my inquiries, and I soon came to some
comprehension of the _alternate working of the ovaries_.

During this period of my life I can say that no single instance of
future maternity, still less of imminent motherhood, was discussed in my
hearing, in respect to the progress and result of which I did not collect
data and information. Perhaps it was owing to my keen interest in the
physical sufferings of women, and my exceptional devotion to the subject
of the upbringing of infants, that I so easily gained the confidence of
every mother I met. The intimate details then disclosed, in exchange for
the genuine sympathy I evinced in their maladies, real or even imaginary,
proved of immeasurable value in my researches. Every detail of gestation
and parturition was faithfully recorded, and this collection of notes
became of incalculable value in helping me to establish my conclusion.

I must not forget the debt I owe to certain medical friends, who, aware
of my desire for knowledge, and thinking I wished to become, in course of
time, a physician, were kind enough to help me to acquire such scientific
learning as might prove useful to my career.

Then came marriage with its attendant responsibilities. Five children
were born to me alive and healthy, and they proved to be, as I desired,
one girl and four boys. I suffered no lack of varied experiences, and
took every advantage offered by all those accidental occurrences and
disabilities that few mothers of large families entirely escape. Every
mishap, every trouble, became a step in the progress of my ever-widening
investigation.

Eventually, as the result of much valuable and varied experience, I
obtained a record of personal symptoms which might fairly claim to be
unique. To these I added the data collected from other similar cases I
had observed, my opportunities of observation having rapidly increased
as I displayed, with greater assurance, the zeal that possessed me for
more, and yet more, clinical experience and evidence. I think that an
exceptionally intuitive and even hypersensitive temperament, combined
with a capacity for patient plodding, helped me, as did also my complete
freedom from all the restraint of a hide-bound tradition, which in so
many cases hampers the outlook of the orthodox medical student.

It was in July, 1908, that, acting on the kindly advice of an eminent
gynæcologist, I deposited with my bankers the actual formula which I
had tested for the practical application of my theory, and which I had,
in many cases, used to my own complete satisfaction. I took this step
in order that I might prevent any doubt arising in later years over
my claim of priority. But even then my formula was not as complete as
I wished it to be. Since that time I have made good progress in many
directions, and more especially in the problem of safe-guarding from
female issue those women who are not entirely normal, in that the action
of their left ovary does not correspond with the laws that hold for the
absolutely healthy woman.

Since 1909, people from many countries have consulted me about their
future offspring. Letters of acknowledgment and testimony to the efficacy
of my plans have flowed in from every part of the world.

It has been objected by some that parts of my theory have the flavour
of an “old wives’ tale.” There is, indeed, some truth in this. But I
see nothing to be ashamed of in the fact that my experience has tallied
with that of scores of observant old ladies in past generations.
Our grandmothers lived so simply and so close to nature that they
were admirably equipped for observation. They made full use of the
opportunities offered them by the large families that they bore and
reared, unaided and unaffected by the artificialities of civilisation.
Then, as the years rolled by, the wisdom they had collected was passed on
from mother to daughter, and to daughter-in-law, to survive triumphantly
the passing ridicule hurled at them by cynics of all times.

But if there is in these fables much that deserves our consideration,
there is also much that is entirely worthless, based on mere superstition
or foolish surmise. Among these the _Diet_ theory, which boldly proposed
to change the sex of the infant in embryo by administering special food
to the mother, is conspicuous. Other suggestions there were which traced
the sex of the offspring to the relative ages of husband and wife, their
temperaments, or a comparison between the more robust health of one
parent and the weaker constitution of the other; and of all these we may
safely say that where six examples can be produced to prove any one of
them, half-a-dozen are forthcoming to establish the contrary.

On the other hand, the hundreds of documents I have received, and the
mass of evidence, direct and indirect, I have collected, go far to place
the theory of the action of the ovaries beyond question, while the very
prevalent belief in _Lateral Decubitus_ strengthened my hand considerably
in making the deductions necessary to elaborate and consolidate my own
theory.

And here I must touch on the far more important question of the exact
periods within the 28 days of the “Lunar month” which are of such
vital importance to sex-determination. I have received a vast amount
of testimony on this score, and in every case it has supported the
contention I have so long advanced. The conception of males would offer,
to many biologists, no difficult problem. There has been little dispute
as regards the times when the male ovum is capable of fertilisation. But
the stumbling block has always been the question of girl-conception, and
this I maintain, is due solely to ignorance of the workings of the left
ovary, as distinct from that of the right.

Some writers assert that “after the 15th day of the lunar month no
conception can take place.” Then how can one account for the thousands
of infants conceived in the week preceding the period—a fact so easily
proved, beyond all doubt? Others again suggest the use of “early
fertilisation for females” and “late fertilisation for males,” on the
principle used by many breeders for cows in their first or second “heat.”

But this is precisely where I am at variance with all preconceived ideas
and hitherto more or less accepted suggestions, for I maintain that woman
stands apart and is unique in the exercise of her creative functions.

In 1907 A. Pohlmann published a treatise on “the heredity of the upright
position and some of its disadvantages.” From the woman’s point of view
one of the greatest of these is perhaps the freak working of the left
ovary. It is frequently argued that if one sex-law holds good for all
other mammiferous animals, why not for woman also?

The answer is fourfold, and can hardly escape the notice of those who
stop to consider the actual nature of woman’s habits and to compare them
with those of the quadrupeds:

    1. Woman enjoys the “disadvantages” of the upright position,
    which throws infinitely more strain on the genital organs than
    there would be, were she to live on all fours.

    2. No analogy exists between her menstrual characteristics
    and those of animals, her courses differing in substance and
    quantity from the corresponding condition in quadrupeds.

    3. Woman alone refrains naturally from all sexual co-habitation
    at these times.

    4. Ovulation and menstruation, though interdependent to a
    great degree, are in no way simultaneous as with animals; on
    the contrary, the further removed from the actual courses the
    healthier the impregnation of the ovum.

The flagrant contradictions prevailing among the “Before and After”
theorists have also done their share for many years in baffling
those biologists who have pursued their enquiry into the domain of
pre-determination. It was the solution of this problem that I long ago
made my goal, _and it is upon this rock that my whole theory is built_.

Another point which gave me much trouble, was the apparent anomaly
of children of one or the other sex being born when either or both
ovaries had been removed. This seemingly unaccountable event was widely
discussed some generations ago, but insufficient evidence was produced
to convince sceptics who contented themselves with a superficial survey
of the problem. Now, for my own satisfaction, and that of all inquirers,
I can safely vouch for the fact that, after the removal of one ovary,
the ensuing children are, in all but the most exceptional cases, of the
sex belonging to the remaining organ. And for every two or three cases
supporting such an exception I have collected a hundred proving the rule.

Regarding the question of the increased activity of the one ovary
following the disability of the other, I may state that the study of
this momentous truth, and the collection of corroborative data, has been
not the least interesting part of my work. Perhaps I may be permitted to
point out that no doctor could possibly have had such opportunities as I
have had of examining, from the _one standpoint of sex-determination_,
hundreds and thousands of varied cases. Among these are women who have:

    1. Been childless.

    2. Had female issue only.

    3. Had male issue only.

    4. Had twins of the same sex.

    5. Had twins of mixed sex.

Not a day passes without some fresh corroboration of the theory I here
maintain reaching me. Had I ever, among all this mass of confirmation,
received a single atom of conflicting evidence, it might have made me
doubtful of myself. But on the contrary, the letters which for many years
past, I have been continually receiving, while they often gave me food
for thought, have inspired my work and spurred me on to fresh efforts.

I have realised that the limitation of families is largely the result
of powerlessness to choose the sex of the offspring. The doubtful
methods used in “Birth Control” have no place in my scheme, and I refuse
to believe that Nature intended married life to be made _un_natural
by so-called “preventives.” Is it wholly absurd to believe that
self-restraint in men is not unattainable, and that the exercise of
self-control in conjugal life is altogether unnatural?

But, because I know so much of women’s lives, and believe implicitly in
the good that is implanted in the human heart, I am convinced that none
of the dire consequences foretold as the result of sex-determination
will ever happen. There will be no social chaos, such as has been
darkly hinted, following on a birth-rate of nothing but boys, no mothers
refusing to have girls or remaining sterile if they cannot bear boys. My
own evidence goes to show that out of every hundred women who long for
children quite 30 per cent. want nothing but girls, and 20 per cent. more
are indifferent as to the sex of the longed-for child. All they want is
to achieve motherhood under the most desirable and propitious conditions
for infant and parents alike.

It is with all sincerity that I say that, from the very beginning of my
studies, the sole object of my work has been to help women to avoid those
special sorrows and humiliations which so often fall to their lot and to
secure for them the privilege of choosing the sex of their offspring.

This book would be incomplete were I not to express my grateful thanks
for the kindly advice and sympathetic encouragement which I have
continuously received for the past twenty years from many members
of the medical profession. I would especially mention Sir Maurice
Abbot-Anderson, M.B., B.S., M.V.O., etc.; Major James Taylor (of Keith),
M.D., T.D., D.L., etc.; Edwin A. Neatby, Esq., M.D., L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S.;
W. Ward Anderson, Esq., M.B., Ch.B. (Edin.); F. W. Lee, Esq., M.R.C.S.,
L.R.C.P.; and the late Dr. John Harley, formerly of Harley Street, London.

                                                           CICELY ERSKINE.

7 ECCLESTON SQUARE, LONDON, S.W. 1.




INTRODUCTION

BY JAMES MONTEITH ERSKINE, M.P.


It requires considerable courage on the part of my wife, and not a little
on my own, to face the publicity which a subject-matter of so delicate
a nature as is contained in this work necessarily involves. Although
the main essentials of the theory dealt with here were formulated over
twenty years ago, it is only now that the progressive spirit of the age,
in contrast with the prudishness of the last generation, has rendered it
possible and desirable that mankind should have the full advantage of the
knowledge of natural processes here disclosed.

Another more private and personal reason for withholding publication
so long was the fact that our five children were young at the time,
and it was obviously undesirable to ventilate this subject while their
educational careers were in progress.

These impediments exist no longer, and the enormous power for good that
must accrue to every potential mother possessing this knowledge far
outweighs any possible disadvantages resulting from publicity. The author
looks for her reward in the immeasurable benefit that others will derive
from her unflagging inquiry and research.

The generous and self-sacrificing assistance that my wife has invariably
afforded me throughout my public career renders insignificant by
comparison, but none the less a mere act of gratitude, any contribution I
have been able to make by way of encouragement in this, her life’s work.

                                                                  J. M. E.

January, 1925.




CONTENTS


                                              PAGE

         PREFACE                                 v

         INTRODUCTION                        xxiii

      I.—SEX DETERMINATION                       3

     II.—THE EUGENIC POINT OF VIEW              11

    III.—THE SELECTION OF THE FIT               20

     IV.—THE MOTHERS’ RESPONSIBILITY            25

      V.—PREMATURES                             37

     VI.—THE SUPERFLUOUS FEMALE                 51

    VII.—STERILITY                              65

   VIII.—SEX-CAUSATION                          77

     IX.—FOR A BOY                              86

      X.—THE “BLANK WEEK”                       97

     XI.—FOR A GIRL                            106

    XII.—THE FREAK OVARY                       111

   XIII.—LATERAL DECUBITUS                     120

    XIV.—SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS: AFTER-EFFECTS     131

     XV.—SIDE-THEORY                           141

    XVI.—TWINS OF MIXED SEXES                  152

   XVII.—“BEFORE OR AFTER”                     163

  XVIII.—THE LENGTH OF GESTATION               173

         APPENDIX                              183




SEX AT CHOICE




I

SEX DETERMINATION

    “Sex is the central problem of life.”—HAVELOCK ELLIS.


In reviewing the long and unenlightened past, one is tempted to ask
whether Woman was not in league with the god of mystery to hide one
of Nature’s simple laws from the knowledge and comprehension of man.
Between woman and the possibility of instructive observation and the
outward visible signs of its expression, there has seemed to exist an
impenetrable barrier, so formidable as to baulk successfully every
effort of the biologist. No doubt the educational system of bygone times
contributed to the difficulties under which scientists laboured in
dealing with the problems of sex. It was practically impossible for maid
or matron to allow her thoughts or conversation to stray from the beaten
track without subjecting herself to severe reproof from Mrs. Grundy. A
source of information was thus suppressed, for women as well as men have
as much right to use their own understanding in judging of truth as they
have to use their own eyes to see their way.

Now girls are allowed to learn, and encouraged to think, and women
allowed to speak and encouraged to act. Thus we are at last approaching
an explanation of the determination of sex, because, depending on woman,
and on woman alone, it can be solved only with her assistance. “Life,”
says Professor Lester Ward, “begins as female. Life is feminine. In the
woman is the ‘creative centre.’ That everything proceeds from the egg,
the ‘vital focus,’ is the verdict of Biology.”[1] In the ovum an egg
alone is the germinal spot, the dawn of the future life. The theory
that the sex of a child is fixed before the ovum is fertilised has now
become an absolute certainty as a result of thousands of successful tests
which have established it. The male, according to science, is not a
sex-determining begetter: he is simply and only a fertilising agent.

It is not necessary here to give a complete list of all the theories for
sex determination that have from time to time been advanced. One by one,
without ceremony, we can conscientiously demolish them, thus clearing
the ground of useless impedimenta and narrowing down the difficulties
to be overcome. Many of these theories were based on experiments and
observations made on rats, bees, tadpoles, ferns, and even sponges. Then
again the health, age, environment, habits, and diet of parents were
successively advanced, apparently on the principle that any peg is good
enough to hang a hat on.

Perhaps Schenk’s[2] theory beats the record for extravagance, though it
gained at one time many adherents. According to his curious doctrine, sex
is determined during the months of pregnancy or well after conception has
taken place. Surely as wild a proposition as endeavouring to grow a rose
from a poppy seed by cultivating the soil in which it is planted.

This does not mean that there is no such thing as paternal heredity, in
other words, that physical or moral characteristics do not descend from
father to son throughout the generations. On the contrary, modern biology
has demonstrated that a father does transmit any weakness he may possess
to his progeny in a heavy percentage of cases, and more especially that
the female members of a family will partake of this weakness; just
as the mother passes on any tendency to disease or weakness of her
own to her male offspring. These facts have a very important bearing
on the transmission of disease, and it is obvious that the power of
pre-determining sex would tend to result in a strong and healthy
race. If physical and mental deficiency in the male parent tends to be
reproduced in the female offspring, and conversely in the male by a like
deficiency in the female parent, it becomes simply imperative to ensure
that in the former case only male children should be born and in the
latter only female. A tubercular father need have little anxiety if he
confines himself to sons only. A mentally deficient mother might without
apprehension have a family of girls. With such possibilities open to us,
we might even be willing to admit with Marcus Aurelius that “an accident
is a misfortune, but bearing it well turns it to advantage.”

Since people who suffer from chronic disabilities will insist on
producing offspring, let them at least make use of the essentially
eugenic law which is offered here. Let them understand that henceforth,
if they produce a specimen of humanity inheriting their own defects, they
are alone to blame.

From time immemorial parents have accepted in silence, but in bitterness
of spirit, the advent of offspring of an unwanted sex. In 70 per cent.
of these cases, it is roughly estimated, a girl has arrived when a boy
was hoped for. In 30 per cent. only was a girl wished for and a boy born.
Prayer without some kind of forethought must surely be unavailing. Help
thyself, and Heaven will help thee. It would be of interest to turn for
a moment to the East—to India in particular—and survey the conditions
of life that prevail there. The abject plight of a great proportion
of the women is largely the result of their lack of childhood, for
among orthodox Hindus every girl must be married before her eleventh
year; great numbers are married earlier still, some as soon as—if not
before—they are born! The conditions under which the widows live—and
these number over 20,000,000—are too tragic to contemplate, so trivial
is their market value. In no country in the world is the Man-Child so
ardently desired, for he is regarded as the Salvation of the household,
as it is he who will ultimately be called upon to officiate at the
death-ceremonies of his parents, requisite for their re-birth, which to
them represents their whole eternity.

In this great Dependency the mere whisper of sex-control evokes unlimited
joy and enthusiasm among all who have heard of it and even faintly
realised its possibilities.

Hitherto the ignorance of parents has been shared by a whole world of
unobservant people, convinced “that the science of life and being is
unattained and unattainable by these weak organs.”

That this helpless and hopeless outlook has resulted in the voluntary
limitation of many families is illustrated to absolute demonstration by
almost innumerable correspondents. “Were I to be sure of providing my
husband with a son to carry on his name, I should most certainly bear
another child” is a typical assurance. Most poignant in its pathos is
the lament: “My husband refuses to let me start a child for fear it may
be a girl, and my heart is literally breaking for want of children.”
Yet another epistle, several pages long, expresses the sorrows of an
older woman, starved by an incomplete motherhood: “If only,” she writes,
“I could make sure of a girl to be a sister to my three growing boys, I
should willingly try my luck once more. But my husband absolutely refuses
to have a fourth son to rear and start in life.”

Do not these extracts, which can be multiplied indefinitely, prove
how essential is the choice of sex, in view of the perilous inroad
birth-control is making amongst the classes from which we draw our best
human material?

It behoves us, as human beings, to accept life with some degree of
responsibility, not as animals pushed along the path of procreation by
blind instinct alone. If, in the space of a generation or two, we have
secured to mankind a better equilibrium of birth-rate, we shall have
helped to make the world a far better place, and totally abolished that
crying social evil “the superfluous female.”




II

THE EUGENIC POINT OF VIEW

    “The destiny of organised nature is amelioration, and who can
    tell its limits?”—EMERSON.


Eugenics is the Science of producing offspring of as perfect a type as
possible, which must eventually result in the general betterment of
the human race. So closely allied is moral welfare to physical that
when the one is directly improved, the other, too, is proportionately
benefited. “Ideals are the very soul of life,” and when they are high,
the trend is towards progress. Unfortunately, between the theoretical
and the practical side of all things there is a huge gap. The essence of
practical eugenics lies in the application of rules, already in use for
the benefit of domestic animals, which, when applied to man, will bring
about a higher physical standard than has hitherto been reached.

According to Professor Punnett “permanent progress is a matter of
gametes, not of training—the man is not made, but born.”[3] Nature
must therefore be helped in the creation of a finer and stronger
human specimen by the selection of the fittest to fulfil the work of
procreation. The diseased, the weak-minded, the consumptive and the
crippled of the Universe would be prevented from producing offspring, and
the race thus purged of necessarily inferior strains. The flotsam and
jetsam of weakly humanity would die off after two or three generations,
and but for sin and vice, which, like the poor, are ever with us, an
utopian state of things would soon obtain. In other words, it only
needs that human nature should be instructed and directed for all to be
well with us, and eugenics, working on the principle that progress is a
question of breeding rather than of pedagogics, would accomplish what
has up to now defied us as impossible.

Unfortunately eugenists are all too apt to forget how great is the abyss
separating the moral from the animal being in man. Much can be done to
improve the physique of a whole nation, but it must be remembered that
“the character of a generation is moulded by personality.” Until the end
of time the morale of a people will be the cause rather than the effect,
and here alone lies the divine spark that animates our whole physical
being.

A happy antithesis to Eugenics is to be found—the science of
psychotherapy, the essence of which has been summed up in the words, “It
is fatal to trust in the squirrel-work of the industrious brain, instead
of the piercing vision of the desirous heart.” Here the moral being of
Man is placed far above his physical or even mental being, which are in
more or less complete subordination to his soul, according to the degree
of his spiritual development. Heredity is disregarded as a negligible
quantity. It is environment, suggestion, willpower, faith, that wholly
influence, compass, and direct the well-being of man.

With eugenics, on the other hand, heredity is the most potent factor, and
this is perhaps why the key-note of materialism runs through the whole
gamut of this idealistic striving towards a more flawless humanity.

Heredity allows for little freedom; so it must be curtailed. Human
nature must either be completely held in check, or transformed beyond
recognition. A check is provided by the simple method of isolating those
human beings who, as a result of disease, are unfit to bear or beget
children. Thus in time the birth of mentally deficient creatures, who are
prolific out of all proportion, would come to an end, and other forms of
inferiority might in time be enormously reduced, and finally eradicated.

So far, so good, but there are other whisperings in eugenist circles,
and particularly in their outer fringes, which deal with subjects so
intimately human and personal that one is inclined to question the
wisdom of attempting to rush in where angels have feared to tread. It
is, for instance, not unusual to speak of the perfect mating of two
physically superior beings who should produce perfect offspring. But so
conspicuously inconsistent is human nature that often a healthy man will
fall hopelessly in love with an inferior or even physically degenerate
woman, and vice versa.

Then polygamy is hinted at; the strong man, as in Eastern countries, may
remain mated to his love, but should wed another wife who will produce
fine human stock. So, after a war, the strong man who survives will
have two or even three wives to ensure the future welfare of the world.
Such proposals have latterly been mooted by more than one writer, with
so-called eugenists foremost among them. The decisive answer to all such
schemes has been given in advance by Montesquieu, in his great work
_L’esprit des Lois_. Very minutely and conclusively he has proved that
polygamy never did, and never will, accomplish the desired end, and that
it is invariably accompanied by race degeneracy and both mental and moral
deterioration. It has appealed to some of the oldest civilisations all
the world over, and, after devastating wars, plagues and famines, has
been solemnly tried and encouraged. But from the national point of view,
polygamy does not answer.

Family life, with all that it implies, is primarily responsible for the
healthy moral and physical upbringing of normal human beings, and true
family life can only exist in a state of unimpeachable monogamy. One
father and one mother, welded together in a common desire to work for the
good of their children, can alone produce a truly healthy and superior
race.

In polygamy wifehood becomes a farce, and motherhood a mere animal
function, generally limited to a single attempt, and followed usually by
a state of lymphatic inertia and gross self-indulgence. The parental
instinct here is blunted on both sides, and all that can reasonably be
looked for in an institution so closely resembling the farmyard is a
purely physical relationship between man and woman, mother and child.
Marvellous results have been achieved in animal breeding by the coupling
of superior males and females singled out for the sole purpose of
providing superior progeny. As regards humanity this can never become
a feasible condition and polygamy remains a form of barbarism or gross
degeneracy. Turkey gives us a fair example of civilised polygamy. In
her essay on the harem, Lady Cook describes the Turkish woman as being
“the most depraved in the world.”[4] My personal experience of Turkish
society, which is not slight, has led me to a similar opinion; indeed,
the results of polygamy on the race where it is practised to-day are too
obvious to require further comment.

Shortly before he died, Mr. Montague Crackanthorpe, the eminent
Eugenist, in a discussion on this subject, remarked, “There is no doubt
that animal life, in its natural state, is essentially monogamous. How
much more is man then by nature, let alone by civilisation, intended to
generate after the highest form of monogamy.”

It has been proved too often to admit of doubt that the moral influence
of the mother on her unborn infant is omnipotent. Prenatal sensations may
well account for the whole trend of the child’s life. In the words of Dr.
E. Sloan Chesser: “Socially, the mother is the basis of racial progress:
ethically, enlightened motherhood is the strongest force in the world.
Intelligent mother-love can alone bring about the inculcation of higher
ideals of citizenship and social obligations.” The need of the hour is
the training of mothers in the deeper questions of life, so that the new
generation of men and women may have a sane and strong sense of human
responsibility and a better understanding of international morality and
friendship and the unity of the human race.

Much can and should be done by encouraging those who are fit and healthy
to have larger families. The Malthusian theory has proved itself a
dangerous menace to civilisation. It is threatening the safety of
depopulated France, and in Great Britain it should be discouraged in
every possible way as an insidious and treacherous enemy to the laws of
God and man.




III

THE SELECTION OF THE FIT

    “I do not fear to follow out the truth
    Albeit along the precipice’s edge;
    Let us speak plain.”—LOVELL.


In every kind of animal life, with but few exceptions, the males exceed
the females in number, so that for the female the field of choice
remains a wide one. Among birds it is the cock who acquires the outward
adornments of feathers and the sweet singing voice wherewith to woo the
hen. She, in her turn, selects the mate she prefers to help her build the
nest which is to receive the offspring of their union. Similarly, various
kinds of animals, when the mating season approaches, acquire new fur or
horns to help them with their courtship.

With us it is otherwise. In the civilised countries of to-day it is the
female element which exceeds the male, so that the choice of a mate
lies necessarily with the latter part of the community. The woman is
compelled to show some special advantage, whether beauty, wealth or
some other feature, which will make her peculiarly desirable to the man
she wishes to attract. For this reason we often see women lose their
self-respect or indulge in the most absurd extravagances in the hope of
distinguishing themselves from the mass of their own sex. In the poorer
classes, this condition prevails only to a minor degree, and for purely
economic reasons nature has her own way to a greater extent. But even
here, as everywhere, women are far too prone to take what they can get,
rather than remain unmarried. We still find the loafer, the diseased and
the drunkard, if like Barkis, they be willing, turned into benedicts,
almost before they realise it themselves. Hence the heavy percentage of
imbeciles, cripples and degenerates which burden the country and fill
the lunatic asylums, hospitals and prisons. This unfortunate condition
is due to the fact that in the British Isles there are, according to the
statistics of the Registrar-General for 1923, at least 107 women to every
100 men.

More men must be provided to ensure offspring as perfect as the human
race can create. Once the heart and imagination of the woman are
satisfied, she will spontaneously fulfil her great rôle of mother. Thus
equipped, she will carry on her work conscientiously, fully alive to the
importance of her child’s welfare. It is the mother’s morale that counts
in reproduction: she takes the giant share of the responsibility.

She represents the Sex, self-contained and all-containing; _Le sexe,
c’est la femme_. And yet, in preparing for the ordeal of motherhood—the
pivot on which the whole world revolves—her chance of selecting a
partner, worthy to become the father of her children, is comparatively
small.

The wonder is that more unhealthy children are not born as the result of
such a limitation of choice. By the subsequent exercise of great care,
many are reared to become useful citizens, but a vast army of permanent
inefficients is born into our midst every year. In a population of
40,000,000 there are 300,000 mentally defective persons, most of whom
are in asylums, but many still free to marry and procreate. Thus one
person in every 118 of England’s population is either mad, idiotic or
feeble-minded. Among criminals alone, the fruit of degeneracy, there are
in England 30,000 in the jails, besides some 5,000 classed as convicts.
There are also every year in England and Wales some 3,800 people who died
by their own hands. All these degenerates contribute but little benefit
to the State, which is in fact often called upon to support them and
their offspring entirely.

In these years of progressive enlightenment it should, above all,
be recognised that the general welfare of the nation is immediately
dependent on the common sense and morale of its women. It is of primary
importance that they should make use of all their intelligence and all
their forethought before embarking on the hazardous venture of matrimony.




IV

THE MOTHERS’ RESPONSIBILITY

    “The only science of mankind is man.”—WARBURTON.


We have spoken of the advantages to be obtained from a eugenic point of
view for women and their children by providing a larger selection of
suitable males. But we must not forget how innumerable are the influences
which can affect the unborn infant. It has been asserted that the
phlegmatic and lazy woman is more prone to female offspring, whereas her
sanguine, hardworking sister is usually blessed with male children.

There is a reason for this. The natural state of every healthy woman is
to produce more males than females. In Russia, where the peasant-women
do heavy manual work on their homesteads, the percentage of male births
far exceeds that of female. Among the French peasantry the same condition
prevails. During the war it was commonly acknowledged that the male
birth-rate increased greatly. When one bears in mind the enormous amount
of hard physical work that was accomplished by women, who otherwise would
have led a sedentary, or at least a far more passive existence, one can
hardly be surprised at it. For this unusual outlay of muscular energy
resulted in the strengthening of the whole right side of these women, and
incidentally of that organ from which male issue springs.

Most decidedly it takes a stronger and more normal organism to bear male
progeny than female. Regular work and exercise, combined with favourable
moral and physical conditions, are necessary to the conceiving of boys.
There should be no exaggerated zeal in the pursuit of sports and games,
but a wife should take a moderate part in all her husband’s pleasures
and occupations, and reserve enough leisure to ensure a tranquil and
contented brain. To keep cheerful and happy is half the battle for the
unborn infant.

A lady I knew, who had thirteen sons and two daughters, was so strong and
muscular that up to the age of 85 she could take a very active part in
any furniture-moving that had to be done. A friend of my mother’s, who
had twelve sons, remarked one day, “I think I ought to have been a man, I
am so much more muscular and powerful than my husband.”

A certain amount of intellectual activity is desirable, such as reading,
music, or any form of accomplishment hitherto cultivated. Any talent to
which active expression is given during pregnancy greatly affects the
unborn child, in whom the seeds of so-called facility, talent, or genius
are thus sown. Once pregnant a woman should never forget for one minute
that her burden must be considered at every step she takes, just as later
on she will hope to watch over her infant’s welfare at every hour of its
existence.

Much can be done to ensure the safety of pregnancy, especially during the
first four months, by early hours, easy-going occupations, and above all
no giving way to worry, morbidity or temper. A morbid mother produces
a fretful baby, who may quite possibly develop a “kink” in his brain
or character. Here also should be underlined the necessity of guarding
against the fatal catastrophe of miscarriage, only too often brought
about by sheer carelessness.

The following are a few typical cases. A lady of my acquaintance, when
pregnant, was in the habit of riding in the Row every morning, up to
the sixth month. Three times in succession the child was a girl, and no
apparent trouble ensued. When, however, she became pregnant a fourth
time, I warned her against the risk that to my mind she was incurring.
But she continued to take the same exercise, and shortly after she
miscarried of a boy, which proved to be her only attempt at male issue.

A young woman who had a boy of two years, and was pregnant of a second
child, insisted, in spite of all the friendly advice offered to her, in
going to Switzerland for the winter sports. She skied all day and danced
all night. Shortly after she became ill, was seized with pains, and
miscarried of a four-month boy.

A lady, who already had a daughter, much needed a son to carry on her
husband’s title. She became pregnant, and went comfortably on till the
fourth month, when, at the time when quickening was due, she was invited
to join a party to go on a long excursion in a coach-and-four. Though
warned beforehand by all her friends, she persisted in accepting the
invitation. She came home worn out, and miscarried next day of a healthy
male fœtus.

A lady, who was inclined to feel ill for two or three days each month,
was warned by her doctor to lie up at these times. She insisted however,
on one such occasion, in taking a long train journey, with the result
that pains came on, and she was delivered of a four-month male child.

Another correspondent recently wrote:—“I started a baby immediately after
marriage, but stupidly did far too much and had a miscarriage in July and
another in December last.”

On the other hand, many of these mishaps may be due to unavoidable
accidents, shocks, and mental worry. But this only emphasises the
desirability of avoiding all imprudence at the first suspicion of
pregnancy, and of using the greatest foresight and self-control when
there is any smallest symptom of “bearing-down” or “malaise.” The old
saying, “A sick pregnancy is a safe one” is doubtless true.[5] But
sickness would appear to be more prevalent in girl-pregnancies, and this
goes far to support the fact of partial immunity in pregnancy from female
abortions.

A lady pregnant of a boy wrote to me as follows: “I am not a bit sick
this time ... but with my first and second babies (both girls) I was
terribly sick and could keep nothing down for weeks on end.” A lady in
Paris assured me that with her four girls she suffered very greatly from
nausea, but that with her two boys she was free from all such discomfort.
A woman who had eight daughters and four sons told me that she invariably
knew of which sex her baby would be, as sickness was always present
during the first three months of girl-pregnancies. Of such cases I could
quote many instances.

Here let me say that miscarriage is one of the direct causes of a lack of
males in the world. Statistics show that of the miscarriages within my
own experience no less than 80 per cent. are male. To this I must refer
later on.

There are other causes responsible for the dearth of boy-babies, all
more or less capable of adjustment. For instance, the fact that it is
more difficult to rear boys depends on two special causes. The first is
the boy’s digestion, which, in my opinion, is more delicate than that
of a girl. This I have noted in hundreds of cases, extending over many
years, and certainly boys are more inclined to sickness than girls.
An elderly monthly nurse of great experience used to say, “my _sick
babies_ are the fattest and the biggest, and are generally boys,” and
she always maintained that “small babies” were easier to rear than big
ones. A mother of ten children recently remarked to me, “My girls were no
trouble, but the boys were so difficult to suit with their foods.” This
is a matter of experience which I have confirmed in countless cases.

Therefore it is all-important that boys should be breast-fed, if only
for the first month of their existence. For the after-health of the
mother, wishful of further _male_ issue, this is also very desirable.
The infant’s best chance of life and health is that it should be born
of a robust mother capable of nursing her child during the first months
of its existence. Walsh, in his work on Psychotherapy says, “It is
well recognised that the reason why nurslings are protected from most
of the so-called children’s diseases is that their mothers have had
these diseases, have acquired an immunity to them, and this immunity is
transferred to the child so long as the nursing process is continued.”[6]

Every mother should, therefore, endeavour to take plenty of nourishment,
so that she may be able to feed her child as long as possible. In order
to be successful, a quart of rich milk should be taken daily; there will
be no difficulty in digesting this, so long as she continues to nurse.
Beer and stout, however, have been proved to be unnecessary and often
harmful for the creation of pure milk. To show how important it is to
nurse babies, it is only necessary to state that in London alone during
the summer 200 infants die every week from “hot weather” diseases, in
most cases propagated by flies which poison the milk.

The second cause of boy-mortality is the widespread, and often ignored,
necessity for circumcision. Every male infant should be circumcised
within the first week of its birth. If properly attended to, the child
does not feel the slight operation, and naturally no anæsthetic is
used. Circumcision is an insurance against many troubles later on.
It is cleanly and a real safe-guard to morality from early boyhood
upward. Every child thus attended benefits thereby, and it is especially
desirable for children of neurotic or tuberculous parentage. It has been
remarked that the Jews rear a much larger percentage of boys than do
Christians, and there can be no doubt that the circumcision universally
practised among them is one of the chief causes of this smaller mortality.

Anæsthetics must be resorted to if this operation is performed later on,
and this, in itself, always entails a slight risk. Otherwise I hardly
know a single case where any serious degree of trouble has arisen from
circumcising an infant. On the contrary, I have seen great relief
afforded by the operation. The number of cases is increasing yearly, and
facilities should be extended to all classes for obtaining this necessary
surgical treatment for their babies. Public opinion should be educated
as to the great necessity of this operation, and, just as vaccination
is compulsory, so should circumcision be looked on as necessary to the
physical welfare of the male child.

With the advent of women into public life it was realised that their
special profession of motherhood had not been adequately assisted or
safe-guarded. Even before the war broke out, Government help was offered
in the form of a grant to defray the expenses of local health work. As a
result, England is now saving 50,000 babies a year, who would formerly
have died. In other words, we are losing one in eight instead of one in
seven, and the death-rate is proportionately lower.

During the great war England lost, every hour on the battle-fields
abroad, ten men. At home every hour twelve babies under one year of age
die. We could not save the men abroad, but we may well save as many of
the infants at home. And it is the patriotic duty of every woman to help
preserve the babies—the nation’s greatest asset.




V

PREMATURES

    “There is no true potency, but that of help; nor true ambition,
    but ambition to save.”—RUSKIN.


There existed long ago in Paris, in the Boulevard des Capucines, an
institution called “La Couveuse,” where, on payment of a franc, one could
see an exhibition of babies, domiciled in incubators for the period of
time requisite for their complete development. I do not know if the
same place is still in existence, but when I saw it, it was a long room
divided by a corridor with half a dozen incubators on either side.

Each of these was tenanted by a wee premature baby, which had made its
appearance at least two or three months before it was expected. More
than half of these infants (they were mostly boys) had enjoyed an embryo
existence of just six months. They had, as Shakespeare puts it,

              “come into the world
    Full fourteen weeks before the course of time.”

These babies were fed by three or four “nourrices,” who lived on the
premises and supplied each little incubated person with a drop or two of
human milk administered in a teaspoon, as none could suckle until the end
of the seventh month.

Among these infants a little pair of red-haired twins, born at twenty-six
weeks, were especially attractive. Their name was Smith, and they
certainly had a familiar John Bull-like expression of countenance. Their
native vigour proved itself in their obstinate battle for life. Two
years later I was able to see those same twins in the best of health and
spirits, and to all appearance as bonny specimens of humanity as any
parent might desire.

Hitherto incubators had been regarded solely as a means for hatching
chickens. It was in France that Dr. Tarnier for the first time applied
the system to the rearing of weakly babies. At the Maternity Hospital
in Paris, and in various other places in France, “couveuses” have now
been employed, for over twenty-five years, with the greatest success.
It seems a pity that in Great Britain the incubator is not more widely
used. Perhaps on account of the antipathy shown in that country to the
wet-nurse system, artificial feeding is a stumbling block. It certainly
is almost impossible to rear an infant born at six months on anything but
human milk. Wonderful results have been obtained, thanks to the incubator
and human milk combined, while many thousands of invaluable boy-lives
have been sacrificed for the lack of combined artificial warmth and
proper feeding.

Personally I know of no less than eleven little six-month prematures who
could have lived and thrived, had an incubator been available. One case
in particular was heart-rending, as the tiny creature cried pitifully
for nearly twenty-four hours on end, as if begging to be saved. Born at
six months from the last day of period, he was well made, with a voice
as strong as any full-time infant’s. Unfortunately it was bitter January
weather, and no amount of hot water bottles could keep the cold air
from his little lungs. He died the following day, literally perishing
with the cold, and worn out with his struggle for life. Here was a case
where an incubator would have solved the problem of rearing successfully
a perfectly healthy atom of humanity, thrown into the world before its
time, owing to the fact of its mother being elderly and not of a very
robust nature.

A medical friend of mine told me recently that, had he been able to
procure an incubator, he was sure his own seven-month baby girl could
have been reared. Twenty-five years ago an attempt was made to introduce
them in England, and I know personally of two mothers who made use of
them with success. In one case a very tiny seven-month girl was put in
an incubator for two months, and has grown up to be a fine healthy young
woman. The other did equally well, and is, I believe, still a woman of
strong constitution.

Why the use of incubators did not become more general was evidently
because they were difficult to procure and expensive to hire. Then the
question of food without the wet-nurse system renders them very difficult
to use privately. But there seems to be no reason why these difficulties
should not be overcome in hospitals and private “Homes” where so many
premature, or difficult, lying-in cases are to be found. Wet-nurses
doubtless could be obtained, and, if this were not possible or desirable,
humanised milk or some patent food administered, with effective, if not
equally excellent results.

As a rule I do not hold with the wet-nurse system; it has been tried
for generations and found wanting. The moral question is at the bottom
of the failure. Perhaps also the eugenic point of view had something to
say about the transmission of hereditary taints through the milk of a
foster-mother, quite frequently drawn from the lowest stratum of society.
In the last generation, of course, the use of wet-nurses was an habitual
occurrence with the well-to-do. But then it was a common question whether
the child did not often become similar in ways and even looks to its
foster-mother.

My own mother, who had ten children, of whom four had wet-nurses, used to
remark in her latter days how much these children partook of the robust
health and nature, and even looks, of those who had nurtured them. In the
case of one of my brothers this was especially marked, and it was also
certainly noticeable in one of the girls.

In France, where many children are put out to nurse, the disadvantages
outweigh the beneficial results of human lactation. The nurses hold
such a sway over the mothers, and in many cases abuse the power they
control to such an extent, that the mother’s care is discounted; her
maternal instincts are blunted, and the child, once weaned, becomes the
defenceless victim of ignorant incompetence and wrong feeding. Meanwhile,
the nourrice returns to her native village to find the child she left as
often as not a puny weakling, suffering all the evils of maternal neglect.

Nevertheless, if a wet-nurse were immediately available, she would
accompany the promptly forthcoming incubator when required, and many
thousands of premature male lives could be saved. I say male advisedly,
for the reason that a six-month baby is nearly always a boy, whereas
the rare five-month miscarriage is generally a girl. In April, 1915, at
Sunderland, England, a Mrs. Pallion, the wife of a soldier, gave birth to
premature boy-triplets. They were immediately conveyed to the Children’s
Hospital and placed in incubators. They have all survived and done well,
and were duly christened Kitchener, Jellicoe and French. The public can
hardly realise the enormous number of children lost to the nation as a
result of still or premature birth.

As a rule no fœtus is born viable before twenty-six weeks, though
according to Scotch law, an infant may be viable at six lunar months or
168 days. A Mr. Tait reports a case in which the mother gave birth to
a girl at five months and twenty-seven days. It lived four months. Dr.
Keiller recorded particulars of a case in which a child of about four
months intra-uterine life lived for about an hour. It weighed 9½ ozs.[7]

Under ordinary conditions it is almost hopeless to try and save these
mites; but, if the greatest care is exercised, it is nevertheless
possible to rear a goodly proportion, in spite of the many difficulties.
Here is a case in point from my own experience: A Scotch woman, over
forty and very stout, gave birth to a seven-month girl, her first-born.
She reared it with trouble owing to her inability to nurse it. Nine
months later she became pregnant of a boy, which was born barely over the
six months. A day after its birth, when weighed, it turned the scale at 1
lb. 10 ozs. The doctor present did not think it would survive. It seemed
impossible to keep the infant warm, as it had no powers of suction.

When asked to take over the baby, my first care was to wrap him in
cotton-wool and flannel, discarding the cotton shirt in which Highlanders
invariably swathe their shivering offspring. I next secured a rubber
hot water bottle, filled it with warm water, and baby and bottle were
rolled up together in a blanket. The next problem was how to feed it. The
mother, happily, had plenty of milk this time, and by means of a teaspoon
I drew off a few drops at a time and fed the baby every half-hour. He
stopped crying and slept for hours on end. The bathing difficulties were
great, as he was so tiny as to fit into my hand, and his little legs
were about as long and fat as my finger.

After seven days of this system, in which I was helped by the devoted
and painstaking mother, the infant had gained 6 ozs. and began to look
almost like a real baby. At the end of three weeks, during which time we
just managed to keep the mother’s milk-supply going, the child was able
to suckle all he required for the nourishment of his minute frame. By
that time he weighed 3 lbs., and had acquired a good hold on life. For
three months he lived and slept with the hot-bottle, and at the end of
that time he weighed 7 lbs. At one year he weighed 20 lbs.—well above the
average weight—and, as I write these words I recall that he has grown so
big as to need “breeching,” much to the satisfaction of his excellent
Highland mother.

The moral of this story is that if a hot-bottle and mother’s-milk could
save such a “puir wee loon” as that recorded above, thousands of babies
in similar plights could be saved yearly. The whole care consists in the
proper _warming_ and _feeding_ of these premature infants who need to be
literally coaxed into remaining with us in this cold and hungry world. In
New Zealand, state and voluntary efforts have united to provide what is,
judging by the results, the most perfect system for the care of maternity
and infant welfare that the world has ever seen. A voluntary society has
management and control of the whole work. No money grant is made, but
aid is given in skilled attendance, advice, and teaching. In five years
the infant death-rate has fallen from 80 to 35 per 1,000, whereas in
Australia it still stands at 71. It is significant that this marvellous
superiority in the numbers of children reared in New Zealand dates from
the time that women were given the vote.

In England in 1914 the death-rate was as high as 108 per 1,000 births. In
1924 it was only 69 per 1,000. In twenty-five years it had been reduced
from no less than 150 per 1,000 to 69. There are now 2,200 infant welfare
centres in the country, and 2,650 women employed on infant-welfare
work.[8] In Germany, France and Italy, the death-rate of infants is
terribly high, and in modern Greece only one child in three survives to
its first birthday. The reasons alleged for this state of affairs are the
sudden changes in the fickle winter weather, and the amount of soft fruit
with which babies are generally fed in summer-time.

As regards the death-rate from causes connected with maternity, there has
been a great improvement in England since the passing of the Midwives
Act. There are now 135 maternity hospitals and homes, and, whereas 20
years ago, five mothers died for every 1,000 children born, the rate has
now been reduced to less than four. With the advent of the new method
known as “Twilight Sleep” or painless childbirth, and the numerous other
means of ameliorating the condition during confinement, no woman need
dread the ordeal of childbirth, but can look forward with unmixed joy to
the advent of the child of her desire.

The excess of boy-births over girls has been recorded in Germany, France,
and England for more than 200 years as being at the rate of 106 boys to
100 girls; but against this we have to reckon with the greater mortality
of males already described, which, of course, does not include the
death-rate causes connected with men’s several callings, e.g., the army,
the navy, mines, colonial pioneering, etc. I have enumerated the many
ways in which we can help enormously to reduce male infant mortality,
and that surely is the first and most important step. In 1916, it was
calculated that in Australia, 72 babies died out of every 1,000 born
before reaching twelve months of age; in Norway 72, in Sweden the same
and in Holland 99, in the United Kingdom 109, in France 120, in Germany
170 and Austria 205. But in New Zealand, where women take an active part
in public life, only 35 babies die out of every 1,000 born. These figures
tell their own story. Where women have most power, the infants have the
best chance of living.

Where women do not count in politics, the babies have the worst chance.
And where all babies have little chance, the _boy_-babies have by far the
least.

It is true that we have made great strides in the direction of
infant-welfare. But very inadequate progress has been achieved with
regard to the saving of the thousands of premature boys, who die every
year, when they could, given the help of incubators and special feeders,
be fostered and reared with entire success. I have explained that
six-month prematures are almost invariably boys, just as the five-month
child is nearly always a girl, and though it may be impossible to save
the latter, I have endeavoured to prove that it is well within our
powers to accomplish apparent miracles in preserving those male atoms of
humanity. They need not die, but may grow up to become healthy and useful
citizens.




VI

THE SUPERFLUOUS FEMALE

    “Life begins with the female organism and is carried on a long
    distance by means of females alone.”—LESTER WARD.


The old saying that girls are easier to rear than boys has been already
referred to and commented on, and its truth has been established by
statistics. It is true also that girls are easier to carry through the
period of pregnancy.

One reason is that they are carried higher in the uterus than boys,
so that serious bearing-down feelings are rarely experienced in
girl-gestation. Doubtless, too, the greater pressure upwards against the
digestive organs accounts for the more frequent nausea experienced during
girl-pregnancy.

In most cases where hitherto hopeless sterility has been relieved it
has been through the birth of a daughter—“Nature’s weakest growths have
quickest spring.” In the far fewer cases where a boy has been born,
the former sterility has generally been due to some slight anatomical
disability rather than to any local delicacy or disease.

A powerful proof of the safe pregnancy of girls lies in the fact that
girl miscarriages are of very rare occurrence. Out of every hundred
babies who miscarry, as I have already noted, eighty are boys. Among
fifty letters received recently from women who wanted sons, no less
than eighteen spoke of mishaps of four-month male children, two
mentioned miscarriages with a female at five months, and in eight others
miscarriages during the first few weeks had occurred or were suspected.
Doubtless a vast number of male abortions occur at or about the third
month and at a time corresponding to the menstrual period.

Female abortions, on the other hand, generally occur at the end of
the fifth month, possibly as the result of shock or accident, but
more commonly owing to disease. They are often caused by a syphilitic
condition of the womb, or by a tainted father. In Aberdeen I noted a
woman who had given birth to two healthy boys, but with her first-born—a
girl—she had miscarried at five months; her husband suffered from
syphilis. In another case a woman produced a healthy boy, but the next
child—a girl—aborted at five months. I have collected numerous cases of
girl-miscarriages happening at the same length of fœtal existence, and
all due to severe accidents or abortive methods, when they were not the
result of a syphilitic condition.

There are innumerable cases to prove that a hereditary taint on the
father’s side is more likely to affect his daughters than his sons,
provided the mother is healthy. In the case of a Viennese family, I noted
that the two girls both showed the signs of a tainted father, whereas
the three boys were as strong and healthy as their mother.

A case in which I was much interested was spread over a number of
years. It was that of a poor country woman, who, when I first met her,
had a healthy family of four girls and a baby boy of ten months. After
that she gave birth to a girl who wasted away at two months with some
tubercular trouble; from that time on the mother had continuous pains in
her left side. However, at the end of a year, she was confined of another
tuberculous girl who lived only eighteen months, and ten months later
still she gave birth to yet another girl-child premature and still-born.
After this the poor mother became seriously ill. The pain in her left
groin was almost unbearable, and continuous discharge caused her at last
to seek surgical advice. At the end of some months of drastic treatment
for tubercular trouble in the left ovary, the patient was completely
cured, and two years later she gave birth to a little son. Though
apparently free from disease, he was rather small and weakly and, when a
year old, died of whooping-cough. But a year later the mother, having now
become a robust woman, produced a fine and lusty boy who is now nearly
four years old.

The explanation would, I think, be as follows. The father, a
consumptive-looking man with a tubercular family-history, transmitted the
trouble to his fifth little girl, who in her turn infected her mother’s
left ovary, and it was only after the birth of two more sickly infants
that the disease became acute. As a result of the surgical removal of the
diseased left ovary, the woman was left with a single normal right ovary,
which was brought into renewed activity by the extinction of its rival;
hence the birth of the two sons.

Here is another case which goes to prove that a son will readily inherit
a disease latent in his mother. An apparently healthy mother bore a
son who soon developed symptoms of the chronic asthma from which he
still suffers. Five years later the same woman bore a healthy girl,
and finally two years after that she again became pregnant, and showed
symptoms, for the first time in her life, of distressing attacks of
asthma. After giving birth to a healthy girl, she died of exhaustion
caused by one of these attacks. Here it will be observed that the boy
alone partook of the latent maternal disease whilst the baby-girl, like
her little sister, has grown up quite strong and healthy, and entirely
free from the complaint.

Then again the extreme rarity of the premature dislodging of a female
fœtus tends to prove that:

1. A more or less healthy womb will harbour a girl-child; whereas it
requires a very strong and vital uterus to carry a male to its full term
and viable. Thus a lady writer:

    I have to lead a very quiet life and I am very anæmic; each
    of my babies—I have three little girls—arrived two or three
    weeks too soon. My period is very profuse, and always five days
    “early”.... I wish I were stronger and could bear a son.

Another letter runs thus:

    I am terribly anæmic, my periods always “early” and far too
    profuse.... I have had four girls; none of their births were
    normal.... I had an operation to my bowels after the first;
    severe colitis after the second; and had to be curetted after
    the third; and since the fourth confinement I have been very
    ill and have had my appendix removed. My doctor told me I was
    not the _type to have boys_, as I am very small and delicate
    especially internally.

2. In very many cases, female children are born to any given selection of
couples who otherwise would not have parenthood. It is unfortunate, but
I can count on my fingers the cases of obstinate and apparently hopeless
sterility that have been relieved by the birth of a boy. In far the
majority a girl has been the result. Lady B. wrote as follows:

    I have been married many years, and have never had a sign
    of the child for which I long.... The doctors tell me I am
    fearfully anæmic, and nothing I do seems to help....

She was a very nervous and excitable patient, and gave me much trouble
for many months. Finally she became pregnant immediately after the
period, and in time produced a fine healthy girl. I have not kept trace
of her history, but I do not think she has had further offspring.

3. Since so many women are inclined to produce one child only, and
since miscarriages are more common among male children, there is a
large predominance of girls as first or only children. I have collected
statistics of hundreds of such cases.

4. There are more sets of girl-twins born than boy-twins; since the
former, being easier to rear if premature, more easily survive their
birth. Similarly in twins of mixed sex (and these are of more frequent
occurrence than any) the boy is the more difficult to rear than the girl.

A usual form of in-breeding in human beings or animals is the
predominance of female progeny. This is especially noticeable with
toy-dogs of various descriptions; out of every litter there may be only
one male dog, frequently none. I have heard several complaints on
account of this anomaly. In pedigree “catteries” the same condition has
been freely observed.

In Turkey there is a vast predominance of girls born, and the death-rate
amongst boys is stupendous. Though all the women are married, it is rare
to find anything but small families among the well-to-do classes, and
where there are many wives, one child apiece is the usual result.

It is now becoming more generally recognised by students of this branch
of science that the first child is usually inferior to the second or
third, and accordingly, when a nation is largely composed of _enfants
d’essai_, as the French call them, race degeneracy and possibly even
depopulation are not far off. This explains why the one child system has
proved so calamitous to a country like France, which is vainly struggling
in the vice-like grip of the Malthusian theory.

Another evil closely concerning the birth-rate of females is that of
illegitimacy; many more girls than boys are born out of wedlock. In 1922,
60,000 illegitimate infants were born in Great Britain, and among these
there were 106 females for every 100 males, which is almost exactly
the reverse proportion of the legitimate birth-rate. For this state of
affairs there are several reasons:

    1. Large numbers of them are _first children_, and of these 70
    per cent. are girls.

    2. In such confinements too little care is generally given both
    to mother and child, and the male child, having a larger head
    and being therefore more difficult to bring into the world,
    is frequently still-born. That, moreover, half the still-born
    children are not registered, may further help to account for
    the disparity.

    3. A _male abortion_ is fairly easily brought about, but female
    issue is infinitely more difficult to get rid of.

    4. Illegitimate children have obviously less chance of
    surviving than those born in wedlock, since their upbringing
    is necessarily rather irregular. Boys succumb more readily than
    girls to the evils which attend upon their undesired presence
    in an unfriendly world.

And here, by way of digression, I would point out that much misconception
prevails regarding the normal prevalence of illegitimacy in England. It
is not necessarily the product of either poverty or of city life. It is
far more common in rural districts than in urban areas, and, even in
cities, it is by no means the poorest parishes that produce the most
illegitimate children. The urban artisan class as a whole is far more
rigid in observing the sanctities and prescriptions of marriage than
any other section of the community. In the country there are many more
families who live comfortably with the illegitimate baby in their midst,
and only a minimum of shame or compunction is experienced either by the
mother or grandparents.

The fact that some 60,000 illegitimate children annually appear
in England is well calculated to destroy some of our pharisaical
complacency. In such a godly country, one would somehow have expected
better things. It is true that in Germany, where the population is to
that of England as 5 to 3, the illegitimate births are as 5 to 1—and
that in Austria, the illegitimate birth-rate in 1916 was as high as 50
per cent., but both these countries, like many others, are burdened with
impossible marriage-laws, and many are the obstacles in the way of a
legal union for every citizen, rich or poor.

“God sends not ill; if rightly understood, all partial ill is universal
good.” We must economize our babies; whether born in wedlock or out of
it, every child has a right to some share of our consideration, and every
mother, whether married or single, should have the right to demand such
care as will save the children she bears from death in infancy.

It is estimated that 70,000 children are actually still-born each year,
and there is little doubt that a very large proportion of these could be
saved by a national scheme for the protection of mother and child. What
we need is a kind of institution which would ensure that undesired male
infants were privately removed from their surroundings and brought up
under proper supervision and care. Thus only could we save the greater
part of those boy lives at present thrown away, and which ought to go to
fulfil the needs of our under-populated dominions, crying for settlers.
The girl-babies could more safely be left with their mothers, or to the
hazard which seems to regard bastard girls more kindly than boys.

It may seem something of a digression to add that, with regard to the
causes of illegitimacy a very potent factor might be found in the
countless public-houses of every town and village in the country. Remove
excessive drink, and two-thirds of the immorality in the world will
likewise disappear. This would prove especially true in Great Britain,
where the ideals of morality are high, and religion is still a real
safe-guard.

Shakespeare said: “A man who goes to bed drunk begets a daughter.”
Whatever the theory on which he based this assertion, there remains
very little doubt that many unwanted lives are brought into existence
as a direct result of over-indulgence. It has often been stated that
the ill-kept public-house is one of the greatest disseminators of
consumption. How much might also be said of drink in connection with the
spread of venereal disease!

But my main point is that intemperance means a high illegitimate
birth-rate, which in its turn is the direct cause of the preponderance
of girl-babies which survive and so accentuate this unfortunate
disproportion.




VII

STERILITY

    “Sterility does not necessarily prove that the sexual organs
    or functions in either the male or the female must be in an
    abnormal condition.”—A. W. EDDIS.


The causes of sterility are so multiple and diverse, and such countless
volumes have been written on the subject, that I do not consider it
necessary here to enter fully into all the particulars connected with the
condition. According to Chavasse one wife out of every eight is barren,
and the majority of these are to be found among the richer members of
society.[9] Mr. Arthur Eddis reckons that in Great Britain alone there
are over 500,000 sterile married women.[10] Only 7 per cent. of the
fertile bear their first children after the third year of marriage.
Therefore, if the first year has gone by with no sign of pregnancy,
the young wife should bestir herself to examine the possible causes of
failure in this direction.

Dr. Marion Sims, who devoted much attention to the treatment of
sterility, laid down several general rules as essential to fecundity. One
of the most important is that “Semen with living spermatozoa should be
deposited in the vagina at the proper time,” or, in simple words, healthy
fluid or seed from the male should be deposited at the proper time in
the passage of the female. Now it may seem at first sight extraordinary,
but many a childless couple remain so for the simple reason that never
once in their connubial life have they hit on the suitable day on which,
rather than any other, they could beget offspring. And that is precisely
why so much help can be obtained _from a suitable choice of days_.

One lady I was asked to treat had been married nine years and at
thirty-eight still remained childless. She was a healthy woman, but had
complained of severe pains in her back and right side at certain times.
Her periods were regular, so that it was easy to ascertain and utilize
the _day before the period was actually due_. A slight flow ensued, but
stopped on the third day—the patient went off to the seaside immediately
and stayed there alone for some time. In three weeks she experienced
much nausea, and the usual signs of pregnancy were soon detected. At the
end of nine months from the day mentioned, she gave birth to a very fine
little girl.

I would like to emphasise the marvellous effects of sea-air on the health
of certain women. I have known the most obstinate childlessness cured
simply by four to six weeks spent by the seaside.

A lady came to see me once who had been married for fifteen years
without—so far as she knew—having ever conceived; she was over forty, her
health was indifferent and she slept and ate little. The first thing to
attend to was the regulation of a faulty diet, and certain other changes
in her mode of living were recommended. A few weeks later I chose the
sixth day of menstruation as most favourable in her particular case, and
afterwards packed her off to rest and enjoy the sea-breezes alone at
Margate.

Within nine months she gave birth to a girl weighing close on 10 lbs. I
should add that in both of the above cases I considered as a result of my
experience that there was little likelihood of a healthy male pregnancy,
and deemed it preferable to make sure of a girl to begin with.

The mother who can bear children early and late and is most prone to
male issue is the wide-hipped, deep-chested woman, who has shouldered
her share of out-door work or regular exercise, whose digestive organs
are unimpaired by rich food, and whose arteries are sound and young even
into old age. The little woman who holds herself erect, slight yet agile
and well-built, may have a son or two, but the bent-over, “crumpled up,”
delicate, nervy, and small-made mother will be far more subject to female
issue.

The young girl, who from childhood has been ashamed of her
sex-development and who, to look more “boyish,” reduces her hips and
chest to a minimum, will never have a healthy and normal motherhood.
There are thousands of British girls (and it is in these islands that
the species flourish most noticeably) who deliberately try to look
mannish, by shoving forward their hips, shoulders and head. With sunken
breasts and rounded backs they “slouch” along, mere shadows of what a
well-developed woman should be.

Where a surgeon finds “nothing apparently wrong” in a woman who is still
young and whose husband is normal, it may mean that everything about
her and her way of living is “not quite right.” She may be suffering
from habitual constipation and malnutrition. She may simply need good
nourishing food in the shape of plentiful fruit, milk, vegetables, eggs,
etc., with fresh meat once a day, instead of unwholesome “made dishes,”
and rich dainties three times a day.

It is often noticed that fat women are inclined to sterility. They
usually imbibe great quantities of liquid, and seem to hanker after thick
soups, milk and cream, and all such fattening diet. Their digestion is
naturally good, but their nerves are bad, and they suffer from perpetual
attacks of extreme exhilaration or depression. Their confinements are
difficult and rarely normal, recovery being slow. If they happen to
conceive a boy, miscarriages are more than likely to occur.

Another type of woman who is prone to sterility is the lymphatic, lazy
and intensely selfish female, who is wrapped up in herself. If she has a
child it will be in the early twenties and rarely is the effort repeated.

Sterility may of course occur in both the fat and flabby woman, and
the thin and weakly one. The chances of impregnation in both types
are encouraged by a healthy mode of living, the avoidance of rich
indigestible food, moderation in the consumption of strong tea and
coffee, and extreme temperance in the matter of alcohol.

How much ill-health in the married woman is due to the lack of care taken
by young girls during their early periods! To be on the safe side, it
is often desirable every month to take a day or two off, either in bed
or lying on a sofa. This precaution, if made a regular habit, may well
help to prolong a woman’s life by ten years or more. In the young girl
a little rest at such times might prevent much illness in later years,
and add enormously to her chances of child-bearing by giving the virgin
organs every opportunity of development without let or hindrance.

On looking into certain cases one often finds that trouble is due to
irregularity or prolonged absence of periods, accompanied by a more or
less continuous white discharge. Pregnancy is not likely to take place
while this is allowed to continue, and it is astonishing how many
women suffer it to go on without troubling to effect a cure. When this
condition becomes chronic, professional advice is most necessary, and
should immediately be resorted to.

A fact which I believe has not hitherto been recorded, but is fully
substantiated by my own experience, is that women who habitually suffer
from profuse and too frequent periods are more inclined to produce female
children, while conversely those women whose periods tend to be scanty
and arrive late more generally have male children.

In this connection, I might quote a letter which a lady wrote to me two
years ago from India:

    I have three little girls and my periods are quite four or five
    days before the fourth week and always very profuse. I am very
    anæmic, partly owing to the climate out here. I do so long for
    a son....

I sent her the advice she requested. Last year she had her wish
fulfilled, and, since his birth, the periods are much more normal and
rather inclined to be “late” than “early.”

On the other hand I received a letter from another lady saying:

    My periods are usually every five or six weeks. Yet I am quite
    healthy and have never had a miscarriage. I have five sons ...
    my periods are always rather “late,” but I am very strong and
    well.

And this leads me to the subject of menstruation, which is generally
so closely allied to that of ovulation. In England most girls begin
menstruating at 13 years, though large numbers start at 14 or 15, or even
later. But according to the record kept by Mr. Robertson of 450 cases, 10
menstruated in their 11th year, 19 in their 12th and 53 in their 13th. He
also gives us particulars of great numbers of women menstruating well on
to the age of 55, two cases of women doing so till 60, and one of a woman
menstruating up to her 70th year.[11]

In cold climates, women frequently menstruate three or four times a year
only, and they begin later and end later. In Russia it is not unusual
for women to bear children as late as 60, whereas with us it is rare to
have a child after 45. Capuron quotes several cases of child-bearing in
advanced age. Among these he gives the case of Cornelia, as recorded in
Pliny. She was a member of the family of Scipio, and at the age of 60
she bore a son, Volusius Saturinus. Another case he quotes is that of a
Venetian physician named Marsa, who treated a woman of 60 for pregnancy,
having previously, owing to her age, diagnosed her trouble as dropsy. He
adds that a woman in Paris bore a daughter at the age of 63 and nursed
it.[12]

It is rare in England to conceive for the first time at 45, but I have
known three women who had a _first child_ at 47, and two at 48. Yet so
great is the latitude in the ages of women’s fruitful period that a girl
may be a mother at 12, or even earlier in hot climates.

La Motte delivered of a child a girl who had not completed her 13th year,
and who had not menstruated.[13] Dr. Paris states that during the year
1816 some girls of 13 were admitted into the Maternité at Paris,[14] and
recently the Matron of a London home has given me particulars of two or
three cases of mothers of 13 and 14.

Dr. Rowlett, of Kentucky, reports the case of a certain Sally Deweese,
born in 1824, who began to menstruate at a year old. At nine years old
she became pregnant, and in 1834 gave birth to a female child weighing 7¼
lbs., the mother then being 4 ft. 7 in. in height.[15] It should be noted
that in cases where the mother is quite elderly or where she is a mere
child, the progeny is rarely healthy or strong. In the former category
the child more often suffers from lack of full mental development, and in
the latter it rarely survives its birth.

Having made a brief survey of the question of sterility in women, I
may now state my conclusion that most disabilities are remediable,
or at least capable of great modification. Much depends on the woman
herself—her health, mode of life and temperament. Conditions and the
proper choice of a day can help, but where there is some organic or
anatomical disability, the advice of a surgeon or a doctor should
immediately be sought. In few cases, from my experience, is sterility
absolutely hopeless, though in many instances where a girl-child can be
conceived, a boy would be impossible, and the attempt should not be made,
as it might cause lasting injury to the mother.

I must confess that when the causation of sex loomed large on the horizon
of my mind I little thought that the simple natural laws I had discovered
would prove such an efficient aid in the treatment of sterility as has
since been shown so abundantly to be the case.




VIII

SEX-CAUSATION

    “The sex of the child is fixed before it is fertilised.”—LENHOSICK.


Before I go on to describe the simple law of nature on which the
pre-determination of sex depends, it is essential that a few anatomical
details should be explained and understood. A fundamental truth to be
borne in mind is the absolute completeness of the maternal organs. They
harbour from the first moment of actual existence the potentialities of
both sexes alike, _entirely independent of the fertilisation of the male
parent_. Of what then do the uterine organs consist? Let us first treat
of the position of the _uterus_ or _womb_. This organ begins to develop
with the first beginning of menstruation, and it goes on growing until
the twenty-first year. Once it has borne a fœtus it never entirely
regains its virgin form, but remains slightly enlarged. It lies rather
to the right, so that when a woman is on her back, the right ovary and
the uterine opening of the right oviduct or Fallopian tube are lower down
in the pelvis than the left ovary and oviduct. On either side of the
womb are the _Fallopian tubes_, their average length being four inches.
These tubes are dilatable, smaller at the uterine opening and thicker
at the abdominal opening near the ovary. Each tube is lined with mucous
membranes which, containing special hair-like fibres called “cilia,”
impel the ovum, or egg, onwards down the tube by a movement always in one
direction, towards the uterus. These tubes are the excretory ducts of the
ovaries.

The _ovaries_ grow and mature earlier than the womb. Each ovary is a
solid oval-shaped organ more or less encircled by the outer end of its
corresponding Fallopian tube, and each enlarges when about to discharge
an ovum. The right ovary is larger than the left. In each are a large
number of cysts known as ovisacs or “Graafian follicles,” so called after
R. de Graaf, a Dutch anatomist, who died in 1673. Each Graafian follicle
contains an ovum floating in a clear albuminous fluid, called “liquor
folliculi.” At birth there are thousands of ova in the ovaries, but by
the time of puberty only one-third remain. Each follicle contains an ovum
and each ovum a vital structure called the germinal vesicle or nucleolus.
This, when fertilised by the corresponding contribution from the male,
grows and develops into the ultimate child.

Ovulation, i.e. the discharge of a ripe ovum from an ovary, is brought
about by the development and maturing of a Graafian follicle, its rupture
and the discharge of the ovum it contained. The enlarged follicle having
gradually approached the ovarian surface, its walls become congested and
thinned at one part. It then bursts; the “liquor folliculi” is poured
out, and the ripened ovum set free. Ova, one or more at a time, are
expelled from the ovary at regular monthly intervals, from puberty to
the climacteric, for some 35 years. Before puberty a girl’s ovaries are
pearl-grey and smooth, but later each ovulation leaves a little scar. For
every monthly period a scar remains, and, as there are some 500 menstrual
periods in a woman’s life, there should be in all some 250 scars on each
ovary, though most of these are entirely obliterated in the course of
time.

As the ovaries are formed in the embryo fœtus so is their sex determined,
and they are potentially male or female from the start. The ova, in
their thousands, lie latent in each ovary of the female until puberty
supervenes. Then, alternately, every month or thereabouts, starting
always from the left, each ovary expels its ovum, and does so with
increasing regularity as adolescence ripens into womanhood. _According to
the sex_, if at any time the ovum be fertilised and pregnancy ensues, an
indelible scar will be left on the _one ovary or the other_.

It is only of late years that the theory of the alternate action of
the ovaries has been recognised by certain eminent gynæcologists. The
evidence afforded by the ovaries themselves admits of little possible
doubt as to the fact of equal division of activity between right and
left side of the womb. Such action is not simultaneous, but definitely
alternating in character.

A woman doctor in Geneva, 35 years ago, made a close study of the fact
that young girls frequently complained of pains one month in the right
side and the next month in the left. She also pointed out a dissimilarity
between the two periods for two months running. These observations
combined with others, carried weight in the minds of many prominent
doctors, hitherto sceptical of the alternate working of the ovaries, and
the theory of “sides.”

To my mind, as the result of long and close investigation, the conclusion
is definitely established that the side theory cannot be seriously
questioned, and any attempt to overthrow it would result only in putting
back the hands of the clock.

Dr. Rumley Dawson’s clearly stated account of the alternate working of
the ovaries is too well known to need reiteration in this treatise.[16]
It is entirely consistent with the principle, by which as Professor
Gamble lately stated, Nature makes provision for all parts of the human
body to rest at intervals while other parts are employed, thereby
enabling the organs to “work in shifts.”[17] The theory in itself is
time-honoured, and many authors can be quoted in support of it. The left
side is the first to operate in the young girl, and it is usually the
first to push forward the work of conception in the woman. Hence the
preponderance of _females_ among all _first_-born creatures.

In the early stages of life most children are left-handed, they even
start walking left foot foremost. As they grow, however, the right side
in time takes precedence. The right leg is the strong one to jump from,
the right arm wields the weapon with which we work or fight. Similarly
the whole right side of the human body is definitely superior in enduring
power to the side where beats the heart. In more ways than one must
this organ be held responsible for the weaker fibre of the position it
dominates.

If there is one exception to this rule it is the brain, of which the left
side gets a more rapid supply of blood, and thus shows more activity than
the right.

On the other hand in tubercular hip-disease, the left leg is affected in
80 per cent. of cases. Congenital dislocation of the hip is seven times
more common in female children than in male. Prenatal and spontaneous
amputation of fœtus limbs is usually to be found in girls only. The
disaster of being joined together, like the Siamese Twins, is more often
suffered by girl-twins, only a very few similar cases among boys being
mentioned in medical records at any time. In phthisis, the left lung is
the first to be affected in 80 per cent. of all cases recorded. The teeth
on the left jaw are the first to arrive, and likewise the first to decay
or drop out, with but few exceptions. Again the right hip, leg, foot and
hand are almost always larger than the corresponding members of the left
side.

So, too, it comes about that the right ovary, the seat of the male ova,
is also the more developed, the larger, and the best able to nourish
the fertilised embryo. It can afford fuller space and freedom for male
offspring than the left ovary can do for the female ova it produces.

As regards the reason _why_ there should be one side for each sex, one
might as well inquire why the heart is on the left and the liver on the
right. _Galen_ has said that “the right side in both parents produces
boys, because it is warmer.” But many people would have judged the side
governed by the heart to be the warmest. Be that as it may, the fact
remains that in France brides are seriously advised to sleep on the
right side if they desire sons, and in 1870 the _Lancet_ observed that
“habitual sleeping on the right side produces boys.”

And so we come to my conclusion. With an organism entirely self-contained
and independent, as I have endeavoured to show the female anatomy to
be, the only reasonable inference is that _the male is in no way a
determining factor in the sex of the ovum_ fertilised by him. On woman
and woman alone does the sex of the unborn child depend.




IX

FOR A BOY

    “Laws wise as nature, and as fixed as Fate.”—POPE.


Just as the male ovum proceeds from the larger ovary, so does the
development of the male fœtus take place in the larger and more expansive
side of the uterus. The male ovary, being more perfectly developed, and
more self-contained than the left, throws out its ovum on the third day
of the menstrual period, _never before_. The earliest boy-pregnancy ever
recorded started on the third day of the period. It was the notable
case reported by Dr. Guérin, of Anne of Austria, wife of Louis XIII of
France, who thus conceived her eldest son. Again we are told by Jourdain
that Henri II consulted the eminent Fernel as to a means of rendering
his Queen Catherine de Medici, fruitful. Fernel advised intercourse
“immediately after the period,” and his advice proved successful. After
years of disappointment, the Queen gave birth to a son.

My researches convince me, however, that only in rare cases does male
conception occur in the early menstrual flow, i.e., from the third day
to the sixth day of the period. The greater majority of _normal_ male
conceptions occur between the eighth and fifteenth day, counting from the
very beginning of the period. _The twelfth day is certainly the fruitful
day_, par excellence, _for the conception of male offspring_, experience
having afforded conclusive proof that the ovum proceeding from the right
ovary is then at the height of its receptivity. It must, however, be
borne in mind that a boy can only be conceived every alternate month, one
month being fruit_ful_ and one fruit_less_. This is further dealt with
in a subsequent chapter. In my formula I have always given the fifth day
after cessation of the period as the most likely date, allowing a full
seven days for the duration of the menstrual period. The reason for
allowing seven days to elapse before risking pregnancy is, that, although
the actual flow may only last three or four days, the uterus remains in
a perturbed state for a whole week, and the ensuing muscular flabbiness
is not propitious to really healthy offspring. It is interesting to refer
to the Law of the Talmud, which goes to prove that the fourteenth day was
largely utilized by the Jews. The direction in Leviticus is “But if she
be cleansed of her issue, then shall she number to herself seven days,
and after that she shall be clean, and on the eighth day”[18]....

I have known many cases where male-conception occurred on the fifteenth,
sixteenth and seventeenth days respectively from the beginning of the
period. One happened for certain on the eighteenth day, though this is
exceptional. Such belatedness may easily cause a meeting of two ova, as
it were, in the so-called “blank week”; one a male ovum and the other a
female, which may possibly have been thrown into the tube as early as ten
days before menstruation. If these two happen to be fertilised on the
same day, or within two days of each other, the result will probably be
the conception of mixed twins.

Generally, however, the disappointed ovum, if unfertilised, perishes
on or about the fifteenth day, for its life, unlike that of the
spermatozoon, is only a matter of days. With the ovum thus dead the
uterus is unable, for the next six or eight weeks, to conceive a male
child, since, before the next male ovum is due, the fruitless month must
elapse.

If, on the other hand, fertilisation takes place, the uterus closes up
entirely, jealously guarding the precious ovum that has now become a
male embryo. From the first month of conception the embryo is alive, and
its sex fully determined. It is an amazing fact that many people still
believe that sex can be determined any time after pregnancy until the
child quickens. Again and again I have been asked how to change the sex
of an unborn infant that was well on its way. People seem to think that
a wave of the magic wand, a special diet, or some form of treatment can
transform a full-blown girl-embryo into a boy fœtus, or vice versa!

It is equally childish to imagine that the embryo does not enjoy vitality
from the first moment of its existence. The virtue which proceeds from
the fertilisation of this germ has such prodigious power that the
whole being of the woman, in mind and body, undergoes a subtle change.
Many women are affected in various ways almost immediately. Some are
the victims of nausea and vomiting which last either for the first
two or three months, or for the whole time of gestation, and are most
distressing and difficult to alleviate. Others suffer acutely from
heartburn, cramp, undue salivation, and other disabilities.

As regards the movements of a fœtus, they may be detected by a doctor
long before the mother discerns them. Possibly she will not feel them
until the fifth month or sixth month of pregnancy, especially if she is
of a passive and lymphatic nature. The quickening occurs earlier with
boys than with girls. Hippocrates maintained that as a rule the male is
felt at three months and the female at four, on account of the greater
strength of the male.[19] Dr. Hamilton knew of quickening in the eleventh
week.[20] Denman says “quickening may happen from the tenth to the
twenty-fifth week, but it occurs most commonly about the sixteenth.”[21]
I have found in the majority of cases that with boy-pregnancies it occurs
at sixteen weeks and with girl-pregnancies at seventeen or eighteen.
“Quickening” is caused by a change in the position of the uterus, which,
on account of its increased weight, suddenly rises above the pelvis, thus
enabling the movements of the fœtus to be discerned for the first time.

During the first three months or so the uterus seems to be flatter with
a male pregnancy than with a female. This condition prevails up to the
time of quickening, when the very opposite occurs. The explanation of
this is simple. When the male ovum leaves the ovary and, after the
menstrual flow, is fertilised, it finds little or no preparation for its
nutriment in the decidua, from which it is to derive its support. Hence
its inception is characterised by considerably less spontaneous vitality
and development. The female ovum, on the other hand, starts its embryo
existence with all the unwasted accumulations of a uterus which has not
discharged its contents for three weeks or more. But, as the pregnancy
advances, the male embryo makes up for lost time, and thrives apace on
the more generous supply of nutrition provided by the larger male ovary.

With advanced male pregnancies, too, there is generally a distinct
protuberance on the right side in front. The weight of the fœtus is
thrown towards the right, and a characteristic of male-pregnancy is that
it allows of a freer walk and less awkward bearing. A lady pregnant with
a boy, describes her condition as follows:

    I am very large, but it is all in front. I am so nervous lest
    it should be another girl, but the movements are certainly on
    the right side.

Another lady who subsequently gave birth to a son, wrote:

    I feel all the violent kicking on the right side and I have
    cramps down my right thigh.

The male sex of a child often tends to cause an extension of the term of
gestation beyond its natural limits. This is mainly due in my opinion
to the larger size and greater elasticity of the right horn of the
uterus, and also to the superior powers of nutriment of the larger ovary.
Although quickening occurs earlier in male-pregnancy than female, the
movements of the female embryo are generally quicker and less powerful.

We may certainly conclude that Nature intended women to produce more boys
than girls, and that, with this end in view:

1. She provided the girl-child with more male ova in her right organ than
female ova in her left.

2. She rendered easier the fertilisation of the right side ovary by
placing the right cornu of the uterus, the tube and the ovary, in the
more attainable position in the pelvis.

3. She made the right ovary and tube larger than the left and provided
more seminal fluid for them to carry.

These facilities for the increase of males are the more necessary and
desirable when we consider:

1. The greater tendency to abortion with male-pregnancies.

2. The great care which must be exercised with first children, if they be
boys.

3. The lack of proper means for rearing male prematures born under seven
months.

4. The extra attention that is always required by boy-children in the
way of feeding, warmth, and such necessary treatment as circumcision.

When we have overcome these disabilities, we shall have made a very
definite step forward. But even so we shall not be able to obtain a
reasonable proportion of males and females until proper use is made
of the simple law of determination, with which I have dealt, however
imperfectly, in this chapter.

[Illustration: FRUITFUL MONTH NORMAL STATE]

Now, for the benefit of the uninitiated and for those unacquainted with
medical terms, I intend to make a brief and simple summary of the points
outlined, so that any woman who desires to have male issue can make
personal use of them.

Union should occur from the third day to the tenth day after cessation of
period. The fifth day after the period or in other words, the twelfth day
from its commencement, is the most certain date for conception.

It will be noticed by the careful reader that the times mentioned are of
a very limited duration. My motto is “safety first,” but I do not wish to
imply that other dates are wholly impossible for male conception.

To make sure of not having female issue marital relation must be avoided
for ten days before each period and for three days after.




X

THE “BLANK WEEK”

    “Great Nature spoke; observant man obeyed.”—POPE.


Having dealt with the workings of the right ovary, perhaps the simplest
plan to follow now would be to examine the action of the uterine organs
from day to day throughout the lunar month in their proper order. It is
not very generally understood that the lunar month of every woman holds
a “blank week,” or kind of close-time, during which no conception can
occur. Yet this is true of all normal women who function regularly, and
the exceptions merely go to prove the rule. Thus, _given that the menses
be regular_, and counting from the first day of the period, a blank week
exists from the sixteenth to the twenty-first day of the lunar month.

During that time both ovaries, male and female, are temporarily in
a state of apparently complete inactivity. This is what actually
happens. In the first week of the lunar month, counting from the period
of menstruation, the ovum is discharged. Then follow eight days of
expectancy, when fertilisation may have taken place, but after that the
womb becomes atrophied, and from that time (i.e. the sixteenth to the
twenty-first day) provided she be regular, a woman may safely consider
herself immune from fertilisation. If more wives were aware of this fact,
many would take advantage of the “immunity” to shield themselves from a
too large or too rapid increase of family. In contrast with the drawbacks
of so-called “preventive measures,” this is a harmless and innocent means
of prevention offered by natural laws.

Unfortunately every woman is _not_ normal, and there are some who may
never benefit from a “blank week.” This occurs where the period is
habitually too early, often as much as a week or ten days before it is
due. In such cases the “blank week” has been trespassed upon, the next
period is already on its way, and no respite has been allowed to the
harassed uterus. Such indications point to a state of weakness sometimes
no more than temporary, and, with proper treatment and care may in time
be remedied. But such a condition frequently denotes serious ill-health,
such as anæmia, which, if allowed to continue, will cause much trouble.
It is also at the root of many abortions.

On the other hand, where the period is retarded for two or three days,
or more, the “blank” week may develop into a close-time of ten days or
a fortnight. This state of affairs is usually beneficial both to the
uterus, and to the general health of the individual. It should, in fact,
be stated that the “late” period is a sign of strength, and as long as
it is not attended by any other troubles, or by distressing “white
discharges” in between the periods, should cause no kind of anxiety.
Most healthy young girls are “late” for many years after menstruation
begins, and sometimes go on for four months without a period. These girls
I have found to be quite healthy and normal, enjoying easy confinements
in married life, in contrast to those who are perpetually troubled by
“early” or even “regular to the day” courses and by an over-profuse
catamenial flow.

[Illustration: FRUITFUL MONTH SHEWING BLANK WEEK OBLITERATED BY PERIOD
COMMENCING A WEEK TOO SOON]

It is the latter class of women who are far more susceptible to the
fertilisation of the female ova. With persons of rarer and “late”
periods, the very opposite conditions prevail. To take a few instances,
a woman I know had but one day of actual “flow” every six weeks and
invariably relied on a “blank” of twenty days. She gave birth to seven
boys, but not a single daughter. Again a certain French peasant woman
only had a day’s period every two months; her family consisted of three
boys and no girls. An American lady, who gave birth to eight sons and one
girl, had a period regularly every five weeks, lasting half a day only.
Her first-born was the girl, and it was remarkable that, in early married
life, she had been more “regular” with scanty periods.

A lady wanting a son wrote to me as follows:

    I fear my periods are very irregular—always three weeks late. I
    have never had a mishap and am very healthy and robust.

She had two boys in succession.

Another wrote:

    I am very regular, but invariably “late,” 32 days being the
    usual time.

She had sons only.

Another letter runs thus:

    Before the birth of my girl I was always very regular at 28
    days; now somehow I am always “late.”

Her three following children were boys.

I could give innumerable cases in further support of this contention.
In a like manner my available evidence goes to prove the tendency to
girl-pregnancies among women of profuse and “early” periods. This is
readily understood, when one considers how easily the “blank” week may
cease to exist, obliterated by the over-active left ovary, so that the
unfortunate wife becomes the mother of an unlooked-for girl. Every
alternate month the danger is present, and, though often avoided, may
sooner or later cause the advent of a daughter.

A lady writes thus:

    My periods are very profuse and always too early; I long for a
    son, but have had only four girls.

Another writes:

    I never have more than ten days entirely free ... but my
    confinements have been quite normal ... I have two little girls.

With the women of rare and scant menstruation, on the other hand, the
“blank” week is very real and reliable.

Lady A. wrote to me as follows:

    What you tell me about the blank week I have heard discussed,
    and some of my friends make use of it.... Twenty years ago,
    Lady E., a very old friend of mine, said to me in private:
    “Now, my dear, I do wish you would warn my niece not to have
    any more children. She is shocked at the idea of preventives,
    but were you to tell her all about the ‘blank week,’ as my
    mother told me, I am sure she would make full use of it.”

The mere fact of the right ovary remaining quiescent till its appointed
time proves that the _male_ ovary is probably the healthiest and the most
likely to produce ova for fertilisation. The right ovary unless diseased
is _never_ too early. This is chiefly due to its being naturally stronger
and more self-contained, and discharging its ovum _after_ the period has
actually begun. Where the periods are too early, it will be generally
found that one ovary works quicker than the other, and that this ovary is
the _left_.

Thus it is possible for three weeks to elapse after one period, four
after the next or two weeks one time, three and a half the next and so
on. If it happens that the male ovary is also “early,” after years of
irregularity, this is because of a “_reflex_” activity, resulting from
the insistent stimulus of the left side.

Generally speaking, just as a tendency to constipation bespeaks in any
given person better health than proneness to diarrhœa, so the longer
“blank” week and the “later” period prove more strength in a woman than
the “early” and profuse menstruation. The latter trouble needs drastic
treatment; the former responds to gentle coaxing and modifying.

Having thus shown the existence of a “blank” week, which provides
_immunity from conception_ to every female enjoying normal health and
regular menstruation, we now arrive at the twenty-first day of a woman’s
lunar month. Adhering to my programme, let us proceed to examine what
occurs, in every normal woman, after the completion of the third week of
this fruitful month.

I hope my readers will be clear in their minds, in so far as we have
arrived at the point already demonstrated.

(1) When male children are safely and easily begotten.

(2) When the blank week affords nature’s means of repose to the organs of
procreation.




XI

FOR A GIRL

    “And binding nature fast in fate
    Left free the human will.”—POPE.


On the twenty-first day of a woman’s lunar month a change occurs in the
uterus. Activity commencing in the left ovary affects the whole being in
a greater or lesser degree. Slight pains are experienced in the back, and
the sensitive and highly strung feel a tenderness in the left breast and
left thigh, as in the same way during the next month such pains may be
felt on the right side. The left ovary has become restive, and, already
seven days, and sometimes nine, before her “flow” is due, has ruptured
the Graafian follicle, setting free the female ovum. This premature
rupture of the vesicle, with the bursting of the Graafian follicle, is
brought about by the actual formation of the “female” ovary, and, its
development being less than and its retentive qualities inferior to those
of the right side, the female ovum is often launched as much as nine
days before its menstrual flow is due. The life of this ovum, like that
of all ova, is from eight to fifteen days, and, in a normal woman, it is
receptive to fertilisation from the twenty-first to the twenty-eight day
of the lunar month which terminates with the next period.

Thus in all normal cases, the twenty-first day of the lunar month, or the
_seventh day before the next period is the most likely day for conception
of the female offspring_. Healthy and regular cases are in a large
majority; indeed, among native women, untouched by modern civilisation,
they are probably the general rule.

A lady writes:

    I have three little girls ... and they were all started _before
    the period_.... I seem never to be able to conceive at any
    other time.

Another says:

    I was told that boys were conceived _seven days before the
    period_. I tried this method, but _it was a girl_.

Herein lies the true explanation of the fact that nearly all first
children, who are not “prematures,” and born within the first nine and
a half months of marriage, are girls. The bride generally arranges that
her wedding shall take place the second week, after the period is safely
over. She thus carefully selects for her marriage a date, at least ten
days after the expiration of menstruation; which, if it happens to be the
fruitful month, will fall in with the girl-conception time. And, if she
conceives, _her first child is bound to be a girl_.

In order to make sure of my ground, and in deference to the expressed
wishes of many gynæcologists, I have taken statistics relating to this
over a number of years, running into a thousand cases, with the result
that 80 per cent. confirm my dicta—than which there could hardly be
better proof. If to these statistics is added the fact of the greater
activity of the left ovary in young womanhood, I submit that the
combination of conditions renders my statement of the facts almost
irrefutable.

There are many women who can only conceive a girl on the last three
days before the period is due, showing that in their case the ovum is
discharged shortly before the flow starts. Other women again are unable
to conceive at any time except on the very day the period is actually
due—I know of many such; they all had _girls_ and never a son. But in all
these cases I have found a certain morbidity of the uterine condition,
combined with a tendency to hysteria and nervous disorders.

The closely impending flow, though not yet present, must render
the existence of the germ precarious, and is usually conducive to
bearing-down sensations at the menstrual times. This is often accompanied
by a slight “show,” which may cause alarm, though not necessarily in any
way a serious matter.

Here let me state most definitely for the benefit of those mothers
who desire female issue, that the great majority of girl-infants are
conceived _on the seventh or eighth day before the period is due_, those
being by far the most actively receptive days for female pregnancies. It
is the seventh day that I have always advocated in my formula, and on
that day, in all normal cases, the strongest girl-babies are conceived.

It must be remembered by those wishing to profit by my formula that
a girl can be conceived only every alternate month, one month being
fruitful and one fruitless.

It is not difficult to find out which month is fruitful, but it is
perhaps wiser to avoid confusing the issue by making calculations with
regard to this contingency.

In order to avoid male issue relations must not take place for ten days
after each period.




XII

THE FREAK OVARY


Those readers who have followed the argument so far will have gathered
from the last chapter the nature of my claim that every normal and
healthy woman is able to conceive a girl according to the method
indicated. But it is now necessary to touch on the small percentage of
women coming under a different category.

It must be repeated that the normal state of every woman is to have one
fruitful month followed by one fruitless. The fruitless month affords
occasion for conception of both sexes, whereas I am satisfied from the
investigation of a very large number of cases that complete immunity from
pregnancy exists every other month. These quiescent weeks can easily be
discerned by any normal woman, who experiences during that period a
sense of partial lack of sexual activity. Thus, out of every eight weeks,
the functions have five week’s respite, which affords the recuperative
advantages demanded by nature. And so just as there is a blank or
fruitless week in the fruit_ful_ month, so there is also a fruitless
month in alternation with the fruitful one.

And now we have to discuss a condition of the left ovary which may result
in conception taking place during the earlier days of the fruitless
month. I refer to the freak action of the “left” ovary. Much confusion
of thought and biological error have been caused by this condition, the
result of an over-strained civilisation and the increasing artificiality
of our mode of life.

In some women, and for some unexplained reason, the left ovary takes
upon itself an added activity equal to that of the right ovary, while
at the same time the functions of the latter decline until finally it
ceases to contribute anything to the reproduction-life of the woman.
The left ovary, having acquired so much importance, becomes, as it were,
unbalanced with the weight of its responsibilities and runs amok. The
ovum is discharged about the twenty-first day, as we have explained
before, but instead of dying as the result of non-impregnation, it
actually remains in the womb and lives during the whole time of the
succeeding period and may even live for several days after this is over.
Thus there is now the risk of the ovum becoming fertilised during the
early days of a fruitless month, and this state of affairs is entirely
due to the condition I have called a “freak” ovary.

Such an activity, foreign to its natural state, may be temporary or
lasting according to its subsequent functional history. The result of
such investigations as have been made appear to show that among _natives_
of comparatively uncivilised lands, this action of the so-called “freak”
ovary is practically non-existent—all the evidence obtainable points to
their immunity from the effects of such ovarian breaches of the usual
procedure have come to my notice.

And now we are negotiating the rock on which so many enquirers have
foundered whilst seeking the causation of sex. The existence of the
“freak” ovary has apparently exploded the simple formula of “Boys after,
girls before.” The formula would have held good but for the fact of the
freak ovary being too common to be overlooked. The vitality of this ovum
interfering with the so-called “fruitless month,” in which every _normal_
woman is safe from conception, is most disturbing, and, in the early
years of my work, this abnormality caused me much trouble. Now that I
have solved the problem I regard this factor as the corner-stone upon
which rests the whole structure of my discovery.

Subtle and yet so definite when revealed, the distinct operations of
each ovary have given me the key to the explanation of a very baffling
question. The month in the ordinary course should be fruitless, because,
had the left ovary _menstruated_ and thrown out its ovum seven days or
more _before the flow_, it would by the actual day of the period have
lost its vitality, and, if unfertilised, been carried off by the flow
itself. In its turn the right ovary, when due to menstruate, would leave
quiescent the uterus until the actual moment of the period, and discharge
its ovum _after_ the third day of the flow, or even later.

With the presence of the “freak” ovary, however, all this is changed. We
find the ovum still active and dangerously receptive on the second and
third day after cessation of the menses. And so the girl-child, which is
conceived _after_ the period (although in a different month to that of
the boy) suffices to undermine the old adage, “Girls before, boys after.”
It is, no doubt, this anomaly which explains, to a large extent, the
utter lack of practical conclusions reached on this question during past
centuries of biological thought. The vast numbers of test-cases collected
during the last twenty years, and proved to the hilt, entirely dispose
of the idea that boys _only_ can be conceived after a period.

But it so happens that girls, if conceived after a period, generally
start during the so-called “fruitless” month. Innumerable cases may be
cited of girls conceived on the fifth and sixth, seventh and eighth day
of period. This is much to be regretted, for it is easy to see that an
ovum fertilised during the actual flow of a menstrual period has not the
best chance of growing and developing into a healthy infant. The womb
is in a perturbed state, and its lining hardly offers a suitable bed on
which the delicate ovum can rest.

The Old Testament has warned us sufficiently against this evil.[22]
Abortions are liable in the early months of pregnancy, and everywhere
we see the results of such intercourse. Many women with skin troubles,
blotches, or marked with the ugly “port-wine stain,” or nævus spot,
are examples of relations at this period. To every hundred women thus
disfigured you will find scarcely one man. Another result of this unwise
intercourse is a large number of big moles all over the face, especially
on the left side. The fact that this condition is rarely found in men
shows that the conception of boys during actual period is very rare, if
not almost unknown. The earliest date recorded of boy-conception is the
third evening of period. The seventh day is the earliest date probable
after menstruation, counting from the first day.

When one realises that conception at the menstrual period is actually due
to a morbid condition of the uterus, dependent on a slightly abnormal
ovary, one can gauge the undesirability of risking the advent of such
offspring. Indeed, it is important that the self-respecting mother should
see that no child of hers be tainted with the reproach of the premature
intercourse above described.

If girls are conceived in the first three days _after_ period (during the
sixth, seventh, eighth days), that is another matter: they may be the
healthy offspring of a slightly abnormal mother who generally can only
conceive at that _one_ time. For instance, Lady D. writes:

    I can never start a baby at any time except immediately after
    my period. It is always “early” and too profuse.... I have
    three girls, and do not seem able to have a boy.

It should, however, be understood clearly that no woman, in a normal
healthy state, conceives girls in the “fruitless month.” Invariably all
the cases observed of this nature occur among women suffering from the
results either of a severe boy-confinement, or an abortion which has
seriously affected the male ovary and left it in a diseased state. Again
it may happen where the right ovary is naturally weak or has been injured
in early youth. From India, a lady writes:

    I have a little girl ... but I had several miscarriages before
    she arrived, from which I have never rightly recovered. It was
    partly the climate, and also I did far too much....

Mrs. B. wrote to me from East Africa:

    I shall be forty next birthday. My first was a girl, then came
    a boy born at six months, who only lived a few hours, and I was
    desperately ill. Then came three girls in succession.

With regard to the offspring of the freak ovary, there certainly seems
to result a less healthy pregnancy all the way through, a more difficult
and generally premature confinement, and a smaller and weaker infant. I
should add, however, for the comfort of mothers, that these children,
given suitable environment, often grow up to be as fine and healthy as
those generated from a more normal ovary.

It is only right to acknowledge that, in the researches which have
enabled me to fathom the complex problem of the “freak” ovary, my best
friend has often proved to be my sex. It takes a thief to catch a
thief—it required the intuitive brain of a woman to understand another
woman, and to investigate with success the most capricious of her organs.




XIII

LATERAL DECUBITUS

    “Lie on the right for a boy, on the left for a girl.”—ALBERTUS
    MAGNUS.


Whenever I am asked to provide a formula for the benefit of those seeking
advice on the subject of pre-determination, I have always expressed
the opinion that a slight inclination to the right, during and after
intercourse, is helpful to the conception of boys, and vice versa for
girls. No doubt this flavours of an “old wives’ tale,” and is not new
to many married folk. Indeed, it was known as far back as 1582, when
Albertus Magnus gave his support to the theory, which subsequently
remained a more or less popular idea. At the same time, it is interesting
to note that anatomy supports this time-honoured theory in every way.
Stock-breeders still make use of it when they place a mare or cow on
ground sloping away from the side they wish fertilised. But it succeeds
only when they happen to fall on the month suitable to the discharge of
the ovum desired.

When I touch on the relation of animals to my theme I do not mean to
imply that they function on parallel lines to women, as regarding the
alternate month. It is true that the principal laws of nature apply to
them in similar fashion, but in this case there is a distinct difference.
A certain veterinary surgeon was, in a hundred cases, successful in the
use of “side-sloping” with cattle, but the lack of further knowledge
concerning times and dates produced the small number of exceptions which
acted as a deterrent to renewed efforts in this direction. And yet there
should really be no difficulty as to times and dates, the only problem
being to select the male month or the female.

Thus a heifer should be watched from the time of the first “rut,” which
means the activity of the left ovary. Her times, right and left, should
be systematically noted from then on, until she goes to the bull. If
the first calf be a heifer, the next heat will accompany activity of
the right ovary. A month should be skipped (a good thing in itself for
the vitality of her next progeny) and the following heat fertilised if
another heifer is required. A well-known doctor in South Africa made
observations on a cow he owned in 1897 which had a bull-calf at foot; she
had a heifer-calf the next year. He then tried the experiment of missing
the next rut—that is twenty-one days after the birth of the heifer, by
keeping the cow stalled for a month. She was then allowed to mate, with
the result that the next calf was a heifer. He repeated this three times
in succession, each time obtaining a heifer. To prove that the cow was
normal he allowed her to mate within three weeks of the birth of the
last heifer and she gave a bull-calf. This satisfied him that sex can be
regulated at will, and that the whole question lies within the functions
of the female. That is just one clear case in point, but innumerable
similar successes have been recorded by others who have experimented on
these lines. The differences of the organic functions of a mare or cow
explain why there can be no question of “before or after,” as in the
case of women. But one thing I have observed, and that is the importance
of taking advantage of the early “heat” to ensure success for a heifer,
while the later “heat,” or the second day of the “heat” is more suitable
for a male pregnancy.

With regard to the position of the fœtus in the cow, there is a marked
difference according to the sex of the fœtus. If heavy with bull-calf,
she will usually lie on her right side; similarly it will be noticed that
the weight and movements are much more to the right and the side will be
most inclined to hang. With female progeny the conditions are reversed.
The left side is now the largest and heaviest, and the cow will lie on it
most readily.

In animals producing numerous offspring each time, such as cats, rabbits,
etc., both ovaries function simultaneously. The spermatozoa must run
equally into both sides of their uterus, for the reason that it is
not a simple cavity, but divided by a deep cleft into two parts with
a corresponding projection inside the cavity. Therefore, as cats and
rabbits have litters of mixed sexes, it is impossible to draw inference
beforehand as to their condition.

Then, just as two conditions, time and position, are necessary for
the successful fertilisation of cattle, so must the three following
conditions be accepted by women, if the results are to be what they
desire:

    1. The fruitful month must be assured. This cannot be foretold
    until after the birth of the first child, but it is of little
    importance compared with the second and third conditions.

    2. The day, in the fruitful month, proper to the sex desired
    must be carefully chosen.

    3. The inclination to right or left, which assists access of
    the seminal fluid to the male or female Fallopian tube must be
    observed.

Among all the theories for sex-determination advanced of late years,
that concerning Lateral Decubitus is the best supported by evidence. Dr.
R. von Braun discovered the earliest evidence of pregnancy in a furrow
which forms and divides the uterus into two _lateral halves_ differing
in shape, the pregnant half and the non-pregnant. Montgomery speaks of a
“boy conceived after the period” and lying “in the right iliac region,”
whose mother had complained of muscular pains “round the right Fallopian
tube.” Dr. Tuckey, on several occasions, found that the position of the
placenta, (the vascular bed to which the fœtus is attached and through
which it is nourished) differed according to the sex of the fœtus.
It was, in many instances, attached to the left side of the mid-line
when the child was a girl, to the right when it was a boy, Montgomery
mentions also that a “female fœtus is turned towards the left side.”
There is much evidence to show that a girl fœtus is always carried in
this position, while the boy faces to the right. Hence the movements are
felt towards the left with a girl and towards the right with a boy.

It may often be observed that a woman starting a female pregnancy is
quite unconsciously inclined to hold her left side, as if experiencing
a slight discomfort. With her, the first movements of the child will be
felt in the left groin, while in a boy-pregnancy the opposite will be the
case. I have by me a letter from a Mrs. B., which runs as follows:

    I had a very bad pain on the _left_ side, when my last girl was
    born. My periods are always early now.

Mrs. M. writes:

    I have had four sons ... in carrying the last two I used to get
    severe pains in my right groin, caused, I was told, by pressure.

Lady R. writes:

    I always lie on my right side: in fact, I feel comfortable in
    no other position.

She had three sons.

I have frequently been able to diagnose the sex of the child as early
as nine weeks after conception, by the presence of a small round
protuberance which appears high in the left groin if a girl, lower down
to the right side if a boy. In a fair number of cases I have found
the fœtus lying so much to one side or the other that the opposite
side appears to be filled only with a fluid, so soft and elastic is it
compared to the other. When this condition prevails one can foretell
the sex with _unerring certainty_. The woman pregnant of a male child,
according to French authorities, walks right foot foremost, and the right
breast will be harder and larger than the left. These differences, of
course, are not so discernible in some women as in others.

In the matter of symptoms there is a distinct dissimilarity between boy
and girl-pregnancies, which also goes to prove the theory of right
or left sides. For instance a woman with male pregnancy will complain
of cramp down the right leg, and of soreness in the right breast. The
reverse will be found in girl-pregnancy. Less sickness is experienced
in boy-pregnancies, and there the mother suffers much less from the
presence of distressing “whites.” Many women suffer from the latter to a
most troublesome degree when carrying a girl, although with their male
pregnancies they experience nothing of the kind.

The movements of a male fœtus are stronger, heavier, and slower than in
the opposite sex, and so also is the pulsation of the placenta. It is
easier to locate the heart-beat of the male than the female fœtus. It can
generally be located by the use of a stethoscope, and if it be a male
fœtus, the beats will be low down in the right groin: or if the position
be sessile (one in which the breech is presenting) the heart-beat will be
high up on the right side. With a girl the beats will be heard either
low on the left side or towards the mid-line, and if sessile, high up on
the left side. In any case they are always more difficult to discern, as
the girl lies to the left with the heart turned away from the surface of
the womb. In certain cases the heart-beats of the female fœtus have been
heard on the right side, especially where the child has been extremely
lively and restless. But it may safely be said that, in nearly every
case where this has been noted, the mother was suffering from a kind of
semi-sterility, where the uterus appeared to be governed wholly by the
left ovary, which in such cases assimilates the characteristics of the
right ovary, and thus the woman is sterile in regard to one sex.

It should be remembered of course that the uterus naturally inclines to
the right, and in some cases the attraction to the left, noticeable in a
female pregnancy, does not take place spontaneously. Especially will this
be so if there be a strong adhesion binding the womb to the right ovary.
Such adhesions often bring about a disability of that ovary, although
the fœtal position may appear, falsely, to indicate a _male_ pregnancy.

It must be here pointed out, that, as a general rule, it is rather the
exceptional and abnormal cases that are brought to a doctor’s notice, and
seldom those that are healthy or normal. This, no doubt, fully explains
why so often medical men have been led to make their deductions from
evidence quite contrary to that to be found, if looked for, in the great
majority of normal cases.

When all is said and done then, it may be safely concluded that for
useful purposes Lateral Decubitus, though not, perhaps, a potent factor,
may prove of use in the pre-determination of sex. It is certainly a
popular theory, and so far no evidence has been adduced sufficient to
disprove its relative efficacy, while some support can be gained from the
facts of female anatomy. I have given it in my formula for many years,
and so far have never had it disputed, or even questioned.




XIV

SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS: AFTER-EFFECTS

    “Teach us to mourn our nature, not to mend,
    A sharp accuser, but a helpless friend.”—POPE.


I have already in a previous chapter remarked upon the noticeable
differences which arise between male and female pregnancy.

A boy may possibly cause a difficult first confinement not only because
he comes into the world with a larger head, but also because his average
weight is one pound more than that of a girl. It is some compensation to
know that the after-effects of a boy-confinement frequently prove more
pleasant and straightforward than those which attend upon the birth of a
girl.

It is often said that the majority of still-born babies are boys, though
this has never been fully proved, probably because so many still-born
illegitimates are not registered; my own experience is rather to the
contrary. “Placenta prævia” more often occurs with female issue, and it
is generally due to the fertilised ovum embedding itself in the anterior
or posterior wall of the uterus near the cervix. It may be that the
position of the left ovary, which is on a higher level in the pelvis
during intercourse, accounts for this frequent aberration of the ova.

Phlebitis, or inflammation of the veins, is likewise a more common
complaint with girl-confinements. It is explained by the fact that any
activity on this side more directly affects the functions of the heart.
After the advent of a girl-baby, obstinate backache and symptoms of
depression are also frequently noticeable, owing to the weaker ovary
having greater difficulty in the healing of the corpus luteum and in the
control of its own more obstinate discharge. Attention is called to this
by the provision in Leviticus “If a woman have conceived seed, and borne
a man-child, then she shall be unclean seven days ... she shall then
continue in the blood of her purifying three and thirty days ... but if
she bear a maid-child, then she shall be unclean two weeks ... she shall
continue in the blood of her purifying three score and six days.”[23] The
Jews thus made allowance for the discharge lasting twice as many days
after the birth of a female child as after the birth of a male.

There is no doubt whatever, that, even if the left ovary is not rendered
_hors de combat_ more easily than the right, it will always give the
maximum of trouble on the smallest pretext. During pregnancy there may
sometimes be a slight “show” at the ninth week, and sometimes after,
which, though generally fairly trifling, is sufficient to be alarming.
With a boy-pregnancy this may occur in the fifth week, but should it
happen later on, it would mean a mishap. With a girl-pregnancy, however,
it may often happen, and does not necessarily impede the satisfactory
development of the female fœtus. Brierre de Boismont states that out
of 1,200 cases, eight showed menstruation during the second, third and
fourth months after conception, three showed menstruation occurring
throughout the whole period of pregnancy, and one was the case of a woman
who menstruated throughout her eight pregnancies.[24] Dr. Nicholson,
writing from St. John’s Island, says: “A regular monthly discharge during
pregnancy is not an infrequent occurrence in this island, particularly
with the whites of a sanguine temperament.”[25] It would be safe to say
that the result of such an anomaly would be the birth of a girl, for I
do not know of a single case of a boy living longer than a few days, or
possibly weeks, after such a gestation.

The first sure symptom of parturition with a female child is generally
a “show.” In the case of male issue, in normal circumstances, this is
rarely observed until after the waters are discharged. In fact, in
practically 80 per cent. of all cases, the parturition of boys begins
with the breaking of the waters. A similar proportion of girls herald
their advent with a slimy mucus followed by red discharge. These facts
go far to confirm the old French saying that “the sanguine temperament
begets boys, and the lymphatic begets girls.” It may be that the male
child assimilates more red globules and sanguineous tissue in its
composition, whilst the female feeds readily on the _lymphus_ and white
particles of blood nutriment.

As time goes on experience teaches that the condition of the blood when
a girl is carried has different characteristics from those in a male
pregnancy. The quantity of fat and albumen is rather increased in the
former and the proportion of fibrin and hæmatoglobulin possibly greater
in the later. Certain deductions, as to these points of difference, have
been gathered by the presence of fatty tissue all over the body affecting
even the finger tips during pregnancy of a female child, whilst the
contrary condition exists in the state of male pregnancy.

“Flooding” is more frequent after the birth of a girl than that of a boy,
and the wearisome symptoms of over-profuse menstruation, appearing for
months or even years after childbirth, are infinitely more persistent
when a girl-baby has produced the weakness. Again, the displacement
of the womb, and its inability to return to its normal size after
confinement, is a distressing trouble due to the greater inherent
weakness of the left side.

It is important to bear in mind that many unhealthy and delicate mothers
would miscarry with a male fœtus whilst a girl-pregnancy might go full
time.

As regards the actual labour, the first pangs, with a female child, are
more apparent in the back and left groin, and the advent of the discharge
soon makes the mother willing to lie up. With a boy, however, the pains
are more apt to be felt in the stomach and down the right thigh, and it
is easier to keep up and about until the last moments. A curious anomaly
is that “after pains,” generally supposed to be unknown at a first birth,
are frequently present in first _girl_ confinements. I have not heard of
a single instance where “after pains” accompanied the birth of a first
child who was a boy. In a tedious labour, it is the first stages that are
lingering and difficult with a girl, with a boy the latter stages are the
worst.

One cannot sufficiently reiterate to all young women the criminal idiocy
of attempted abortion. As a result of my clinical experience I have
come to the most definite conclusion that the right ovary, lying as it
does lower down in the pelvis, is the most easily damaged. Any adverse
conditions affecting the womb may interfere seriously with its functions;
such an occurrence as _bleeding_, as the result of an abortion, may so
react on the right ovary and the Fallopian tube as to paralyse them and
prevent all subsequent activity.

Where this occurs the left ovary straightaway takes upon itself the
functions of both and with redoubled activity, discharges its ova,
“capturing the trade” of its rival, so to speak. As we have seen, this
ovary produces only female ova; so, henceforth, as a natural consequence,
only female offspring will be produced by the damaged womb.

After a first fatal abortion, whether accidental or voluntary, too
often a trail of girls will ensue, and I could tell of countless such
instances. A lady, pregnant of her first child, slipped downstairs; as
a result she gave birth to a still-born boy; the next six children were
all girls. I know of another case where eleven daughters followed the
premature advent of a male child. In yet another case sheer folly brought
about the miscarriage at first pregnancy of a male fœtus; only after many
years was the woman in question able to give birth to three children—all
girls. In each of the above instances the birth of an heir was of the
utmost importance in view of title or estates.

A lady who had given birth to seven daughters had subsequently five
mishaps, each at four months, and every time she proved to have been
pregnant of a male. Another lady consulted me, because after eight girls,
she longed for a son; she became pregnant but miscarried at four months
of a boy. I learnt that she had had two similar mishaps before her
daughters were born.

It is safe to say that 80 per cent. of all miscarriages are the result
of male pregnancies. I am able to give such a figure and to be positive
as to its accuracy in my own wide experience, because of the possibility
of diagnosing the sex of a fœtus at a very early stage. A striking
demonstration of what can be done in this direction was given by Nagel,
who distinguished a testicle in the youngest embryo ever successfully
analysed with reference to sex; it was exactly five weeks old. And any
abortion younger than that does not need to be considered in relation to
sex determination.

All women then should be warned early in married life against any risk
of miscarriage, that they may be on their guard against such deplorable
results, the bane of motherhood. “Fore-warned is fore-armed,” and a huge
percentage of the waste of life and energy which now prevails could be
prevented if only a more sensible and normal view could be taken on the
question of initiating young girls and women into the wonderful, yet
simple, laws of maternity, on which all human welfare depends.




XV

SIDE-THEORY

    “Conception may take place even though there coexisted an
    immense amount of disease in the ovaries, provided one of them
    retained as much of one ovary sound as belongs to one mature
    vesicle.”—MORGANI.


There are and always have been so many dissentient opinions on the vital
question of sex-predetermination, that it would be well to survey the
multiple causes of the scepticism hitherto expressed by some biologists
at the mere mention of the “Side-Theory,” since this theory forms an
integral part of my principle.

The root of my argument lies in the statement that the right side
contains male ova only, and the left side female. I have examined the
“Side-Theory” from all points of view and studied the history of its
origin from every source at my command. To satisfy the judicial and
unbiassed mind, one must hear each argument and then methodically
endeavour to answer one by one with irrefutable proof and evidence;
only so can the truth of the theory be established, and the weakness or
irrelevance of the criticisms advanced against it demonstrated. It is not
an uncommon thing for a woman, for one cause or another, to have one or
both of her ovaries removed.

I have gathered many instances of this, and it may be said definitely
that no woman who has ever had her right ovary and tube completely
removed, has ever given birth to a boy subsequently; and similarly after
removal of the left ovary and tube the birth of a girl is not possible.

A few critics have written to me from various parts of the world
intimating a knowledge of cases where the right ovary had been removed,
and yet a boy had been born, and vice versa, drawing the conclusion that
such evidence entirely disposes of my theory.

My reply to them is that I can go further, as I know not only of
instances such as they draw my attention to, but others in which both
ovaries have been removed, and yet children of _both_ sexes have since
been born. The explanation is perfectly simple. It sometimes happens that
if the operation is not absolutely complete, a vestige of pedicle stump
remains sufficient to harbour one mature vesicle, and that being so,
pregnancy undoubtedly becomes possible.

Some time ago a rising young surgeon expressed the wish that he might
come across one single case of a woman bearing a child, after both
ovaries had been removed. Then only, he said, would he be prepared to
“accept the theory of sides in its entirety.” Shortly afterwards he was
able to realise his ambition. A medical friend of his delivered of twins
of differing sex a woman who had actually been operated upon by that same
surgeon a year or two previously, when both ovaries had been removed.
From medical authorities I have been able to gather a few more such
cases, to add to my own list. And it is only recently that a lady wrote
to me: “I had both ovaries removed and tubes, but since then have given
birth to a boy and a girl.”

Experiments on animals, after the removal of both ovaries, go to prove
that they may still produce young, just as cases are recorded of certain
male animals being able to fertilise a single time after being castrated,
and the explanation is simple. In ovariotomy it is sometimes difficult to
ascertain that all ovarian tissue has been completely removed. Some of
the tissue may yet remain in the pedicle stump, and if this pedicle stump
be long, one cannot say how far up the ovarian tissue may extend.

Montgomery gives a case of boy and girl twins born in such circumstances.
In the postmortem on the mother only one corpus luteum was discovered,
the left ovary having been removed. The pedicle stump, had, however,
harboured the female Graafian follicle; hence the girl. On the right
ovary, the single corpus luteum could not possibly have contained the
_two_ Graafian follicles necessary for the embryo of each sex. A lady
I knew of, who had her right ovary removed, became pregnant two years
later; about the third or fourth month she was taken very ill with pains
in her right side and intense hemorrhage. The doctor advised an immediate
operation for tubal pregnancy; this, however, was not eventually found
necessary, as the trouble subsided, with the discharge of a blighted
fœtus. Later, the patient was assured that this side would be of no
further use to her, as the tube “had evidently burst”; thus precluding
any hope of future offspring; this diagnosis proved wrong, because she
has since then given birth to two sons.

Twins may arise from the same follicle, but they will be of the same sex.

Menstruation may continue after both ovaries have been removed, and
invariably does so where only one has been removed. But the fact of so
many women being able to conceive after bi-lateral ovariotomy, and to
conceive twins of either sex, when only one corpus luteum has been
found in either pedicle stump, proves to the hilt the truth of the
“side-theory.”

Another striking testimony to the law of sides is afforded by tubal or
uterine pregnancy. This unfortunate condition is caused by the ovum being
arrested in its passage from the ovary into the uterus, and so being
fertilised while yet in the tube. A morbid state of the tube, which has
possibly formed adhesion with the ovary or other parts, may be due to
congestion or contraction of its natural diameter. This practically never
occurs except where previous children have been born and is most common
where there has been abnormal distension, such as an unusually big child
or twins might cause. Death may ensue from the bursting of the tube, and
the results of many post-mortems on such cases have added their testimony
to the correctness of my theory.

Male tubal-pregnancies are the most usual, since the right tube is the
largest. Dr. Seligsen of Moscow collected fourteen cases of males in
the right tube; of females developing in the left I have collected five.
In one case, where a female fœtus was found in the left tube, which
was removed, the mother recovered and had a boy four years later. Of
the right tube I have collected six cases. In two the mother recovered
without the tube having to be removed, the fœtus coming away at four
months after acute pain in the right side. If, however, the pregnancy
lasts for over sixteen weeks the tube invariably bursts, unless otherwise
relieved.

In another case the right tube, without bursting, ejected the
cigar-shaped male fœtus at four months, after severe hemorrhage. The
patient recovered, but two months later a second male fœtus was ejected
from the uterus, and severe ovaritis ensued. This was cured and the
woman became pregnant again of another male fœtus which aborted at two
and a half months. The ovaritis reappeared, whereupon an operation was
performed, and the appendix was found to be adhering to and pressing
against the ovary. After the removal of the appendix, the ovary promptly
recovered its normal health. The original cause of this trouble had been
the abnormal size of twin-boys, born some two years previously.

A girl under my observation had to have her left ovary removed, before
she grew up, as the result of a severe accident; later on she married,
and gave birth to six boys in succession. Another girl who also had lost
a left ovary married and gave birth to a boy and then to twin-boys; since
then, she has had two male miscarriages at four months; neither of these
women ever had female issue.

A girl who strained herself at thirteen playing tennis, complained ever
after of pains in the left groin; she married and has given birth to
seven boys in fifteen years; evidently her left ovary had been rendered
inoperative. Numerous instances of this kind could be given, and every
case I have come across has emphatically endorsed the side-theory.

No doubt there are occurrences which seem to tell in the opposite
direction. For example a male fœtus may be found growing in and
distending the tube leading to the womb from the left ovary. But this
can be explained quite naturally by the fact that the male ovum had
journeyed from the right ovary, down the right tube into the womb, and
then, instead of remaining there, had passed right across the cavity into
the left tube; here it had become lodged, and so developed into a male
fœtus; this is called “internal migration.” Or again it may by “external
migration” have passed across the pelvis cavity, along the peritoneal
surface of the intestines, to the external opening of the opposite
tube—the left.

This, however, savours of an accident, and in no way disproves my theory
that the right ovary produces male offspring, and the left female _only_.
Experts have mentioned both these anomalies, but have so far offered no
explanation, though Pouchet advanced the doctrine that there might be, in
these cases, “aberration in the dispersion of the semen which does not
follow its natural course,” of which no proof is even suggested.

Professor Scanzoni cites the case of a woman who after a quarrel with
her husband, complained of severe pains in her _left side_ and died that
night. On examination a laceration was found on the left side of the
uterus, in which were the membranes and placenta of a fœtus, but there
was every evidence that the ovum had originated from the right ovary.[26]

A Mrs. C., after the birth of two girls, employed my formula and became
pregnant of a boy; at the third month the pregnancy, which proved to be
tubal, was terminated by the bursting of the tube which had subsequently
to be removed. The mother was saved, and it was found that, though the
child was a boy, the offending tube was the left one; and apparently
since the birth of the last girl this tube had remained abnormally
enlarged, and in an unhealthy condition, thus causing this anomaly.
Eighteen months later the lady conceived again; she miscarried of another
boy, and the right ovary was left in a state of acute irritation and
bound down with adhesions. It is some years since this happened, and she
has now succeeded in regaining her normal health and has at last produced
a much-needed son and heir.

“Placenta prævia” proves the complete vertical journey of the ovum;
in such cases, the ovum, having arrived in the womb, drops vertically
downwards to the lower part of that organ, instead of becoming embedded
in the upper part. Fertilisation ensues and the fœtus becomes attached to
the mouth of the womb, and if the child goes full time it is usually born
dead. Ovarian pregnancies are equally dangerous though fortunately rare.

Such abnormalities in no way reflect on the truth of the side theory;
on the contrary the abundant evidence I have collected corroborates in
every particular that the right side is proper to male issue, the left to
female.




XVI

TWINS OF MIXED SEXES

    “All nature is but art unknown to thee,
    All chance, direction which thou canst not see.”—POPE.


Hitherto no theory has been advanced which explained, in any satisfactory
or credible manner, the conception of twins of opposite sex. I maintain,
however, that, in the light of my investigations, it becomes a simple
and natural occurrence, and in this chapter I will briefly outline the
circumstances from which it may arise.

Twins may be conceived in two or three different ways:

1. A boy may have started at the beginning of the month, or toward the
middle, and a girl may be conceived seven days later or more, just
before the next period is due; the fact that the uterus does not always
close up entirely, and may even slightly re-open after conception, has
been sufficiently proved to make such an event entirely probable. To give
an instance, an American biologist mentions the case of a white woman who
gave birth to twins on two successive days, of which one was white and
the other black. She subsequently admitted intercourse with a coloured
man a few days after her husband had left her for a long period. Quite
clearly this woman conceived each twin on a different day, by a different
father.

The fact that so often, where the twins are of opposite sexes, one seems
to be less developed than the other, points to the probability of one
of them having been conceived one, two or three weeks later than the
other. When the girl is the smaller, which is often the case, we may
conclude she was the last conceived. If the boy be the smaller he was
conceived perhaps at a later date, and after the attempt at menstruation
which often occurs during the first or second month of girl-pregnancy. I
believe this manner of twin-conception to be rare, however. Out of twelve
cases of mixed twins collected recently, I have found only one where the
boy was smaller.

2. A boy may be conceived simultaneously with a girl if the ova from both
ovaries happen to be present in the tubes or uterus at the same time.
This would occur in the “blank week,” which, as we explained previously,
does not exist for certain women, if their period arrives every three
weeks. So, at the end of fifteen days, from the first day of period, the
left ovary, already active, his discharged an ovum before the male ovum
discharged by the right ovary has fully lost its vitality. Where this is
the case, both of these ova are equally ready for fertilisation. This
manner of conception is probably much rarer than that first considered.
It is very unlikely that a woman of irregular habits could produce two
ova each capable of forming a healthy embryo.

3. The conception of mixed twins has been explained in the following
way:—It is known that healthy spermatozoa may live for weeks in a
woman’s Fallopian tube. Thus, the male ovum having been fertilised on
the twelfth day or so after the first day of period, the female ovum
may be fertilised by the same issue of spermatozoa some ten days later.
This would also account for the smaller weight at birth of the girl. Any
exception, where the girl was the finer specimen of the two, might be
explained either by the arrested development of the male infant, owing
to a less healthy male ovary, or by the cornu of the uterus on that side
being less elastic and so preventing as full a development as that on the
left side.

This last theory of conception, which has the support of many biologists,
does not appear to me to be satisfactory. How can the fertilisation of
the left ovum by the belated spermatozoa be really effective? And, if
it is so, would not the lack of spontaneous vitality account for those
arrested pregnancies one so often comes across, and for which, up to
now, no cogent reason has been advanced? Faulty fertilisation might as
well be the cause of an abortion at any early state of one embryo whilst
the other continues its normal course.

I knew of one woman who, having had a mishap at thirteen weeks of a male
fœtus, was surprised on getting up again to find that she was still
pregnant. Five months later she gave birth to a healthy girl. Dr. Jameson
cites the following case. A lady he attended was delivered on February
13 of a healthy male child, whom she nursed. On April 3, however she was
taken ill, and shortly after was confined of a blighted fœtus, between
eight and nine inches long. This fœtus was attached to a placenta, which
appeared to be quite healthy, as large as that belonging to a full-grown
one.[27] Great numbers of such cases may be quoted, but till recently the
causes have been obscure.

It is commonly believed that when twins are of mixed sex one or the
other proves sterile when adult and there seems some ground for this
assumption, but it is not of universal application.

Difficult as it was, I have made every effort to get at the facts,
with the result that in scores of cases one or other of the twins has
been found to have remained celibate, or, after marriage, to have had
no children. I know of three sets only of mixed twins where both have
married and had families.

The bearing of twins apparently tends to be hereditary in the female
line, often recurring from mother to daughter, and this is more
frequently the case where the twins are of the same sex. These are the
result of a special development of one ovary or the other, accompanied by
a propensity to discharge two ripe ova simultaneously.

Triplets, quadruplets, and quintuplets are likewise produced for similar
reasons, as above described. In May, 1915, a Mrs. Howarth of Sheffield
gave birth to three boys and one girl. They have all survived and done
well. “An Italian woman at Palermo has given birth to five children, all
of whom are in perfect health,” was an announcement which appeared in the
papers not many months ago.

Such occurrences are quite tame compared to the account given by Ploss
of an Italian woman, named Dorothea, who in two births produced twenty
sons.[28] First, a bevy of nine arrived, and two years later eleven more
boys were born at one birth, these happenings being substantiated and
vouched for by the doctors Francesco Pico della Mirandola and Ambrose
Paré. The engraving, made from an authentic picture of this woman before
the birth of her many sons, is most extraordinary to behold: the curious
thing is that all were male children, so evidently the woman had a right
ovary abnormally developed to the complete extinction of the left.
Statistics go to prove, however, that the birth of female twins is more
common than that of male.[29] No doubt this is, in a measure, due to the
greater difficulty of carrying male twins.

I knew of a woman who, within two years, gave birth to two sets of male
twins; she subsequently bore first a single boy, and then a triplet of
boys. Her left ovary had previously been removed, as the result of an
unfortunate confinement when a girl-child was still-born; but she did not
carry the first male twins longer than a bare thirty-three weeks. Had she
carried them to their full term, it is doubtful whether she would have
made a normal recovery and been able to produce the other six boys.

Those women always recover most easily from boy twins who do not carry
them full time, and whose babies, when born, weigh barely from four to
five pounds each. Twins weighing together twelve pounds or more at birth
tend to overstrain the genital organs of the mother, with bad results.
The tube is frequently left in a disastrously distended condition, which
may lead to tubal pregnancies and appendix trouble.

Girl twins are seldom carried over eight months and are usually small,
entailing infinitely less strain on the mother. They are not only more
frequent, but easier to rear than boy twins. Mixed twins are the most
usual of any, and they are rarely like each other, whether in looks
or character. If they are very large, the result to the mother may
subsequently be sterility, but this is not by any means to be taken as a
general rule. I have known a woman start a fine family of six sons and
six daughters with a good-sized set of mixed twins.

Mr. Rumley Dawson divides twins into four varieties:

    _Variety A._ One Boy: One Girl: One from each ovary—a different
    Graafian follicle: a different ovum: generally one placenta to
    each.

    _Variety B._ Two of the same sex: One ovary: two Graafian
    follicles: two ova: either two girls or two boys. In this
    variety there may or may not be a placenta to each, but
    generally there is only one.

    _Variety C._ One Sex: one ovary: two ova contained in the same
    Graafian follicle. One corpus luteum only will ensue from the
    bursting of this Graafian follicle which contains two ovuli.
    In this case the children will resemble each other—far more
    closely than those coming under the first two categories. One
    placenta only will be found.

    _Variety D._ One Sex: one ovary: one Graafian follicle and
    one ovum in which are contained two nuclei. These twins are
    rare, once in seven only. Extremely similar they are often
    joined together like the “Siamese Twins.” In triplets the same
    conditions obtain, and one ovum may produce three nuclei, all
    of the same sex.

As I have shown, twins are conceived according to all the rules laid
down by the much-discussed, but hitherto imperfectly, understood,
side-theory, and, where it was well-nigh impossible to explain clearly
the conception of twins of mixed sex, complete understanding is now
afforded by our newly acquired knowledge of the functioning of the left
ovary.

That twins are the result of a peculiar condition of the ovary, usually
hereditary, I have already indicated; it clearly follows therefore that
multiple pregnancy cannot be initiated at the parental wish. But, where
there is a marked family inclination to twins, _it is certainly possible
to ensure their being male or female_, according to desire, provided they
be both of the same sex.




XVII

“BEFORE OR AFTER”

    “Count it crime to let a truth slip.”—BROWNING.


Hippocrates maintained that the male fœtus became animated thirty days
after conception, while the female required forty-two days to become
animate. This exactly bears out, and is explained by, the theory set out
in my formula that a male conception occurs during certain days after the
period, and a female somewhere between the twenty-first and twenty-eighth
day: that is, eight to twelve days later.

Montgomery, in the year 1850, was of the opinion that conception could
occur apart from the previous influence of menstruation. For, as he said,
if they are necessarily dependent the one on the other, “no woman could
conceive at any time, except at, or just after, the menstrual period.”
And in support of this he refers to instances of women who, having
never menstruated, yet became pregnant, and also of girls who had borne
children before they menstruated.[30]

In such an event the left ovary would always be the first to operate.
Nysten records the case of a girl of thirteen, who, having not yet
menstruated, died at the Hotel Dieu, Paris; after death a tumour was
found in the situation of her _left_ ovary, having every appearance of a
blighted fœtus.[31] In my investigations I observed the case of a village
girl of nineteen who became pregnant, and at seven months was taken
seriously ill. Up to the actual moment of parturition, both the midwife
and the girl’s mother refused to believe that the labour pains could
betoken a possible pregnancy, as the patient had never menstruated; she
gave birth to a premature female infant.

A young married woman, whom I met recently, gave birth to a baby girl,
although she had not menstruated for two years before becoming pregnant,
and could give no dates to her doctor for calculating the date of the
babe’s arrival.

Mr. Whitehead, of Manchester, has given particulars of nine cases in
which pregnancy occurred previous to menstruation. He did not give the
sex of the offspring, but, according to all the evidence I have been able
to collect, such pregnancies almost invariably result in female issue.

My explanation is that menstruation was either temporarily suppressed,
or that it did occur, but was so scanty as hardly to be recognised for a
normal period. We must, therefore, accept it as extremely unlikely that
ovulation which, as before explained, is the discharge of a ripe ovum,
can occur apart from the influence of menstruation.

Biologists, who at one time believed that ovulation must happen
simultaneously with menstruation, found it difficult to account for
the large numbers of conceptions occurring before the beginning of the
catamenial flow, or after its complete cessation. The suggestion that
the spermatozoa might lie in wait for the ovum is not reasonable, taking
into consideration that the actual monthly discharge, when at its height,
would almost certainly carry off the spermatozoon, which is still in the
nature of a foreign body until it has fertilised the ovum.

Another popular idea is that _ovulation and fertilisation_ are
spontaneous. This implies a _necessary_ state of consciousness and active
responsiveness on the part of the female, which cannot be backed by any
kind of circumstantial evidence. Too many examples exist of women who not
only had no sensation during conception, but became pregnant under the
influence of drugs, asphyxia, drunkenness or even deep sleep. Also the
fact of rape, which has so often resulted in offspring, again disposes of
the natural and perhaps more pleasant conclusion of mutual spontaneity
in impregnation. It must strike one that nature seems to have made a
slip in this respect, thereby involving in undue horrors and anxiety the
victim of criminal assault.

According to Montgomery, a woman may be delivered during sleep, without
being conscious even of first labour. This must be of rare occurrence,
especially among women who have not previously borne children and whose
organs are thus less disposed to dilate; it might be possible in warmer
countries than those of Europe. A lady told me her first three children,
born in India, gave her no trouble at all, but during her last three
confinements in England she nearly lost her life each time; and it is
well known that most Anglo-Indians prefer an Indian confinement to a home
one. There is no doubt that the summer confinement is, as a rule, quicker
and easier for the same patient than one occurring in winter.

But this is a digression. To return to my argument, there exists
no biological fact to dispute the theory that the ovum, whether
before or after the menstrual period, may lie for a few days awaiting
fertilisation. It is entirely unreasonable to suppose that the catamenial
flow might carry away, not only all belated spermatozoa, but even the
ovum itself. So for that very reason, the ovum is discharged separately
from the flow, although in direct relation to it. Thus, one month it is
thrown out _after_ the uterus has been emptied of its menstrual flow,
and the next month it is thrown out _before_ the period is due, and some
seven or eight days previous to the actual discharge. This is the normal
rule. The exception occurs when an abnormal ovary allows the ovum to
escape during the period; even then it happens only after the bulk of the
discharge has been eliminated from the ovary. Thus nature protects the
ovum, which otherwise might well be carried away by the purifying process
of the period at its height.

With reference to menstruation occurring during pregnancy, Montgomery
says: “The safety of the ovum would appear incompatible with the profuse
and frequently repeated discharge which some women experience, without
abortion ensuing.” At the same time there appears to be no reason,
anatomical or physiological, why a certain amount of menstrual discharge
should not escape in the ordinary way, but, should it do so, it is bound
to interfere with the well-being of the ovum.

A woman I knew had a fine boy whom she nursed, although menstruation
started at the second month, and continued regularly. But her horror was
great when she noticed that her figure was growing in size, and when the
“quickening” at four months assured her that she was again pregnant, she
weaned her boy at once; but the menses continued until she gave birth to
a puny six-month boy, still-born as the result of this triple strain on
the maternal constitution.

It is the apparently independent action of ovulation and menstruation
which has so often puzzled biologists of all ages, affording, as it
does, ample explanation of the doubts they have expressed as to the
possibility of any allied action between them. Menstruation without
ovulation may possibly take place, but can ovulation happen without
menstruation? The presence in the ovary of the ripening Graafian follicle
doubtless encourages the catamenial flow to start, in the one case before
its actual rupture, and in the other seven days after it has burst and
thrown out the ovum into the tube, but the menses may occur equally where
ovulation is immature, faulty or entirely absent.

However this may be, it must be insisted on that conception during
the actual flow cannot take place, for the reason that the embryo, in
all probability, would be carried off with the bulk of the natural
discharge. But after the second or third day this is usually scanty and
slow, insufficient to disturb a possible fertilisation. Such happenings,
however, are not desirable. However scant the discharge or even if it
be quite dried up, the uterus should in no wise be disturbed before the
eighth day.

Even so, where a “freak” ovary is suspected, should intercourse happen
in the fruitless month, it is desirable to take a hot douche for three
successive days after the seventh day of period. This clears away danger
of conception from a “freak” ovary. Such a practice, further, is not only
entirely harmless, but cleanly and productive of much local comfort and
well-being. Where there is danger of undesirable fertilisation, it is the
one and only decent means of avoiding such an occurrence; otherwise the
alternative is to resort to “birth control” methods of a less healthy or
desirable nature. Even in the fruitful month, healthy conception is not
desirable before the eighth or ninth day of period, i.e. two or three
days after the cessation of the actual flow.

Throughout this book I have endeavoured to make clear how it is possible
to avoid such pitfalls. By adhering to the times and dates set forth
in the preceding chapters, every healthy and regular woman can ensure
the normal conception and pregnancy of a child, boy or girl as she
desires. Not only is she assured of immunity from the advent of undesired
offspring, but also the power is placed in her hands of limiting the
number of her children, without having recourse to methods prejudicial
alike to the sources of health and happiness.




XVIII

THE LENGTH OF GESTATION

    “Truth remains true, the fault lies in the prover.”—BROWNING.


It has frequently been asked in the course of discussions on the
alternate action of the ovaries, whether both take an active part in
each pregnancy. We have seen that after the removal of one ovary, the
other, in due course, takes to itself the work of both, doing double
duty and thus allowing menstruation to proceed on more or less normal
lines. Similarly it may be concluded that, supposing the right ovary has
produced a fertile ovum, the left one will remain inactive during the
whole period of pregnancy, ceasing both to ovulate and to menstruate.
Thus, the _entire alimentary discharge is left for the use of the right
ovary_, which by sole reason of its activity attracts and distributes
the double supply. Moreover, the placenta is supplied direct from this
ovary with sanguine nutrition wherewith to feed the fœtus, and it is
interesting to note that Jaquemier specified anæmia in numbers of women
as commencing after the middle period of pregnancy; this is accounted for
by the huge supply of blood nutriment absorbed by the placenta feeding
the fœtus.

Another theory, however, is that ovulation and menstruation of both
ovaries do continue during gestation, but that the one ovary does not
directly feed the ovum of its rival, but passes its alimentary fluid to
the opposite side—by so doing directly helping to sustain the fœtus.
But all evidence I have collected seems to point to the former theory.
No doubt, in the case of mixed twins, both ovaries concur directly and
alternatively in the nourishment of their own fertilised ova.

In post-mortems on women advanced in pregnancy, the corpus luteum has
been found in the ovary whence came the embryo, according to its sex.
While on the opposite side no fresh scars of false corpura lutea from
recent menstruation were found, although within a few weeks these would
certainly have shown a distinct yellow mark on the ovarian surface; from
this we gather that the last false corpus luteum formed in that ovary
appeared before the commencement of the pregnancy.

Another point that should be made quite clear is that relating to the
duration of gestation, which differs according to the sex of the child.
Dr. Chavasse was of the opinion that, as girls so often seemed to arrive
at the beginning of the month as counted from the last period, they
were evidently conceived after the period, whereas boys, he argued,
arriving often at the end of the month and generally later than was
expected, were evidently conceived at the end of the month and a few
modern physicians still uphold this theory. But, needless to say, it is
_entirely_ erroneous. Chavasse says also he is inclined to believe that
girls are carried longer than boys. This, again, is exactly the reverse
of the facts, if we study them in a clear light, considering them as they
actually _are_ and not as they appear to be.

A boy takes longer to mature in the uterus than a female for two reasons:

1. He does not, as previously explained, find the preparation of decidua
in the uterus; hence a slower development in the early stages.

2. He weighs at birth about 1 lb. more than the average girl; so he
requires extra time in which to develop.

French medical authorities cherish the idea of longer girl-gestation for
the reason that a female fœtus will, they say, often be carried fully
thirty-nine weeks and she may even, though this is rare, be carried forty
weeks, but when this happens in the case of a girl, the pregnancy becomes
“protracted,” and the result is either an enormous child, weighing from
11 to 12 lbs., or an arrested and abnormal pregnancy. A boy usually goes
his full thirty-nine weeks; often he is carried forty, or even sometimes
forty-one weeks; thus, though begun after the period, he will yet run
right on to the end of the ninth month, or into the tenth month of
gestation.

Personally I have rarely met with the case of a girl-child of under
7 lbs. weight, carried beyond thirty-eight weeks; thirty-nine is the
extreme normal limit, and results in a child weighing from 7-8 lbs. at
least; forty weeks is abnormal. I know many families of girls where
each was carried barely thirty-six or thirty-seven weeks; they were all
healthy and normal, weighing from 5-7 lbs. It may be that the greater
restlessness of the female fœtus hurries, to some extent, the process
of girl-gestation; and the fact that anæmia is very frequent during
girl-pregnancies may be the cause of less endurance in the mother, and
helps to explain why girl-babies are carried a shorter time. It is never
safe to count on a nine-month gestation with a girl. Real “full-time”
girl-babies are exceptions to the rule, and often a mistake arises
through the belief that a child was conceived two or three weeks previous
to its real date of conception. Frequently mothers show me new-born
babies weighing 4½ to 5 lbs., with the remark, “Yes, I carried her
full-time; it was close on nine months since my last period when she
was born,” and in nine cases out of ten these infants have been carried
barely thirty-six weeks. Yet they grow and flourish as well as the
“full-time” babies.

Anyone who has been in a position to await and watch, as I have, great
numbers of births, cannot fail to have noticed that the girl baby comes
unexpectedly early, often before preparations have been completed.

The boy, on the contrary, looked for daily, withholds his advent, often
from week to week; and this must be recognised as the normal distinction.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nature works slowly and discreetly; she is chary of revealing her
secrets, and few of those, eager for practical results, could have
afforded the life-time of work, which I have been able to give, for the
continuous investigation that was necessary.

As regards my personal experience and the results obtained I can but say
that they have uniformly realised my highest expectations. In every case
where my formula was employed, there has been success, and I can point
to thousands of accurate results. The theory, as a whole, has worked out
consistently all the time, and in the few cases where a disappointment
has occurred it has invariably been proved to the hilt that the formula
was _not_ accurately followed.

I recall the case of a lady who had my formula for a boy; she wrote to me
in October, 1913:

    I came across a doctor who holds opposite theories to ours,
    _i.e._, first ten days a girl, last ten days a boy, based on
    his practice, which is pretty large. I was disappointed to find
    anyone whose experience worked out contrary to yours. I am by
    way of having an infant in December, having followed out your
    theory. So we shall have to wait and see results, but I feel
    rather disappointed....

Result—a boy born December, 1913.

This is one of many similar epistles, but in each case the issue has been
as arranged for. It is curious to note here that, apart from accidents,
a child is born on the actual day of the week that it was conceived; and
this detail might well be made use of with reference to the future day of
its birth.

       *       *       *       *       *

This book may come as a shock to some biologists, especially those who
have been unable to give to these matters the close practical observation
necessary for solving such a problem as that with which it deals. It
may appear to them outrageous that a mere woman should write so openly,
putting the choice of her children’s sex within the reach of every
mother, and, without compunction or hesitation, expounding these secret
laws of nature for the benefit of humanity.

It is, however, unlikely that any male practitioner would have found the
time, even supposing he had the mind and the opportunities to follow
up this exclusive study of one subject in all its minor details and
side-issues. It is only a woman who could possibly have made the unique
series of observations that I have found absolutely necessary in the
pursuit of knowledge so long denied to parenthood. Could any but a woman
have ferreted out the exact dates and times of conception in scores of
pregnancy cases, or follow minutely every detail and symptom, week by
week, month by month, up to the time of parturition?

The very simplicity of my formula, which in no way disturbs the course
of nature’s laws, has often provoked the comment, “Surely it’s all too
simple to be true. Why was it never found out before?” In reply I would
remind my readers of Christopher Columbus and his egg! And is there not a
saying, “The greatest truths are the simplest?”

My final word is this: Time will prove, more and more abundantly, that
the knowledge disclosed to us by nature’s teaching deeply concerns the
whole scheme of life, and must have its effect on the welfare of the
human race.

There may be—there is—more to learn and to discover. I do not assume
complete knowledge of every contingent problem, but what I set out to do
has been accomplished in so far that every woman can, with certainty,
claim complete mastery in the regulation of the sex of her offspring.




APPENDIX


When widespread attention was called in the Press, some months before the
publication of this book, to the nature of my discovery and the theory I
have based on it, there were not wanting one or two critics who thought
fit mildly to question it, doing so, incidentally, with only very partial
knowledge.

By far the best answer to such criticisms is the fact of the practical
success of my theory as demonstrated by actual results. Extracts from a
few of the great number of letters received, which were naturally of a
private and confidential nature, are here set forth and these could be
multiplied indefinitely. Nothing could, to my mind, be more distasteful
than anything savouring in the slightest degree of advertisement, but I
feel bound to use what is the most effective of all methods in bringing
home to enquirers proof of the success which has attended the application
of my theory. I should add that all the letters received were purely
spontaneous expressions of gratitude:


A. _In the following cases Boys were desired_:

“I had a small son born last September. I was most delighted with his sex
... after two little girls, and I wish to thank you for your assistance
and advice.” (1914)

“It all happened exactly as you said, every date was correct, my boy
weighed 10 lbs. at birth; thanking you again for all your kind help.”
(1913)

“You will be sorry to hear that I had a miscarriage.... But it was a boy
according to your theory—thus proving that your advice was correct.”
(1915)

“I must tell you that my wife had a boy on the afternoon of the 1st. She
desires me to write and thank you for your advice.” (1915)

“Our wee boy arrived two weeks ago—yet another triumph for you. I cannot
tell you how thankful I am for all your good advice.” (1916)

“It is splendid having this baby-boy after four girls; it has changed our
whole life.... A thousand thanks.” (1920)

“It was kind of you to provide Mrs. C. with a son! There were great
rejoicings, after three daughters.” (1912)

“I followed out the instructions and the results are magnificent.” (1914)

“I followed your directions and started a child ... it was a boy,
proving your theory correct: eighteen months later, again following your
instructions, I had another boy.” (1915)

“I am forty-one, my two girls are twelve and ten. Since the doctor said
I could have another child, I have unfortunately had no result; I should
not think of another if it was going to be a daughter, but I should love
a son.” (1918)

(_A year later._) “We are all so delighted at having a son and think you
need our grateful thanks.”

“I write as soon as I can to say how immensely grateful I am to you for
the son I have been wanting for the last seven years. He is called ——
after my father. Both my brothers were killed in the war, so I did very
specially want a boy, and now I hope to have more owing to you. I think
your discovery one of the most important that can be made, and only long
for everyone to know of it.” (1925. _Received while the proofs of this
work are passing through the press._)


B. _In the following cases Girls were desired_:

“I wrote to you for a daughter a year ago.... A very precious little girl
arrived in November. I am more grateful than I can say.” (1912)

_From South Africa._

“Thank you for your letter. It may interest you to know that my three
boys started on the day you give for conception of males, and I am
positive the little girl I lost started a week before the period. Thank
you so much for your advice. I hope my new baby-girl will have arrived
next time I write.” (1922)

(_A year later._) “Just to let you know our lovely baby-girl arrived a
month ago.”

“I am so delighted with my daughter and was so well all the time. I feel
so full of gratitude.” (1919)

“My friend, Mrs. P., has her baby girl according to your hints, and she
is very grateful to you.” (1923)


C. _Cases of Sterility_:

“It was an amazement to me when I found I had started, as all the
specialists told me I could not possibly have another child. I had an
easy confinement; the boy weighed 9½ lbs. Many, many thanks. I intend
giving your address to many mothers who need your recipe.” (1917)

“I find it hard to express how awfully grateful I am to you for all you
have done.... It really is too extraordinary what you have done for my
health, besides the infant—your power is so wonderful, and the happiness
you bring to people.” (1913)

“I cannot half express my gratitude to you. It seems just like a miracle
... I am deeply grateful....” (1916)

“I can’t tell you what a joy our little girl is to us. I never can be
grateful enough. Do help my friend as you helped me.” (1924. _This lady
had been childless for fifteen years._)




FOOTNOTES


[1] _Pure Sociology_, p. 313.

[2] L. Schenk: _Determination of Sex_.

[3] R. C. Punnett: _Mendelism_.

[4] Tennessee Lady Cook: _Essays_.

[5] In the mishaps that I have observed, the first bad sign is very
frequently the total disappearance of all kinds of nausea. Montgomery
remarks: “There is little doubt that, in general, vomiting is a useful
concomitant in pregnancy, and that its sudden cessation is very often
indicative of an unfavorable change in the contents of the womb, and of
approaching abortion.”

[6] _Psychotherapy_, p. 19.

[7] _Lancet_, April 23, 1842, p. 119.

[8] Speech by Mr. Wheatley (Minister of Health, 1924) to the Standing
Joint Committee of the Independent Women’s Organisation, July 31, 1924.

[9] _Advice to a Wife._

[10] _Sterility of Woman_, 1890.

[11] _Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal_, vol. 38, p. 231.

[12] _Médecine Légale._

[13] _Traité des accouchements_, obs. xxiii, p. 52.

[14] _Medical Jurisprudence_, vol. i, p. 257.

[15] _Transylvania Medical Journal_, vol. vii, p. 447.

[16] _Sex Causation._

[17] _Address to the British Association_, 11th Aug., 1924.

[18] _Leviticus_ xv, 24.

[19] _On the Nature of the Child_. Section 11.

[20] _Pract. Obs._, p. 107.

[21] _Introduction to Midwifery_, 5th Edition, p. 217.

[22] _Leviticus_ xx, 18.

[23] _Leviticus_ xii, 2.

[24] _Brit. and For. Med. Rev._, Oct., 1842, p. 386.

[25] Robertson: _Essays_, p. 92.

[26] _Verhanlungen der Phys. Med. Gesellschaft in Würzburg_, Bid. iv,
1853.

[27] _Dub. Med. Journ._, vol. xxii, p. 15.

[28] _Das Weib_, p. 787.

[29] Playfair: _Science and Practice of Midwifery_.

[30] Montgomery: _Signs and Symptoms of Pregnancy_.

[31] Convisart et Leroux: _Journal de Médecine_.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SEX AT CHOICE ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG™ LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg™ License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg

Project Gutenberg is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 41 Watchung Plaza #516,
Montclair NJ 07042, USA, +1 (862) 621-9288. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


